Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create an Alaska LLC?
Within the state of Alaska, business owners can take advantage of several
loans, tax credits, and programs
provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. For example, to promote economic development, Alaska offers a
microloan
to small businesses requiring access to capital. For businesses requesting a loan, you can apply for up to $35,000 for an individual or up to $70,000 for two or more people.
For entrepreneurs looking to start a business in Alaska, creating an Alaska limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Alaska corporations benefit from, with more simplified rules and regulations.
Benefits of Starting an Alaska LLC:
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Create, manage, regulate, administer, and stay in compliance easily
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Low cost to file ($250)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Alaska business taxes
, and much more. We also cover your registration needs, filing your Alaska LLC, and how you'll correspond with the Alaska Department of Commerce, Community, and Economic Development (DCCED).
How to Form an LLC in Alaska Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete an Alaska LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
To start the process, you’ll need a name for your LLC that’s original and stands out, but one that’s not used by any other business or incorporation in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Alaska Business Names.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Alaska. To find out whether another company in the state is already using your preferred business name, use our tool to do a business name search. You can also carry out a name search on the Alaska DCCED
online entity search.
We Can Search the State of Alaska Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for Your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence), or any other physical location, every Alaska LLC must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the state of Alaska, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Alaska Department of Commerce, Community, and Economic Development. Every LLC in Alaska is required to have a Registered Agent.

This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business, or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Alaska Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Alaska and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company. In Alaska, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your business.

All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Alaska Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Form Your LLC with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Certificate of Organization With the Alaska Department of Commerce, Community, and Economic Development (DCCED)
Once you've gathered all the information for your Alaska LLC, you’ll need to file your
Articles of Organization
with the Alaska DCCED, Division of Corporations, Business, and Professional Licensing.
Here’s what is typically included:
Name of your LLC
Disclosure of the corporate purpose of the business
Registered agent and contact information
Whether it will be member-managed or manager-managed
Names and signatures of all organizers
Your Articles of Organization can be filed online by using a system provided by the Alaska DCCED, or by mailing a printed form to the DCCED. The
Alaska LLC filing fee
is $250.
File by Mail
State of Alaska Corporations Section
PO Box 110806 Juneau, AK 99811-0806
You only need to file your Certificate of Formation once, but every year after, you'll also need to report and pay Alaska franchise tax (if applicable to your business) and file a public information report. Bizee can remind you about this every year, or we can do it for you if you have us handle the paperwork.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Alaska State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What Are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Alaska?
State Fee
$250
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Days
Initial Report
Domestic (Alaskan) Entities are required to file within six months of creation. 
Failure to file will cause non-compliance and may lead to administrative dissolution.
Due Date
Within 6 months of the date of formation
Filing Fee
$0
Annual Report
Frequency
Biennially
Due Date
By January 2nd of the filling year.
Filing Fee
$100
Note
Entity organized or qualified in even-number years must file in even-number years; those in odd-numbered years file in odd-numbered years.
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) From the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the Alaska LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details key components of your business — how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members, and what will happen if a member leaves the company.

Although some states require that a company have this document in place, you're not legally required to have an
Alaska LLC Operating Agreement
. We think it’s still a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Alaska LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Alaska — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.

Learn more about
Alaska Foreign LLC registration.
Helpful Resources from the State of Alaska
Alaska Department of Commerce, Community, and Economic Development
Alaska Department of Revenue
Alaska Department of Labor
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your Alaska LLC
How to search the Alaska business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving an Alaska LLC name, and more.
2
Alaska Registered Agents
How to appoint, change, and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Alaska LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
Alaska Business Tax Rules
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now