Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create an Arkansas 
LLC?
The are several
business incentives and credits
offered within the state of Arkansas that businesses can take advantage of, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. For example, the
Apprenticeship Program
provides qualifying businesses with the opportunity to receive up to $2000 or 10% of the wages earned by the youth apprentice for each apprentice.
Creating an Arkansas limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way, for entrepreneurs wanting to start a business in Arkansas. With more simplified rules and regulations, an LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Arkansas corporations benefit from.
Benefits of starting an Arkansas LLC:
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Create, manage, regulate, administer, and stay in compliance easily
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Low cost to file ($45)
How to Form an LLC in Arkansas Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete an Arkansas LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
To start the process, you’ll need a name for your LLC that’s unique and stands out, but you'll want to make sure that it's not being used by any other business or formed entity in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Arkansas Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Arkansas. To find out whether another corporation or company in the state is already using your preferred business name, use our tool to do a
Business Name Search
. You can also carry out a name search within the Arkansas Secretary of State's website via their
Business Entity Search
.
We Can Search the State of Arkansas Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every Arkansas LLC must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the state of Arkansas, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Arkansas Secretary of State (SOS). Every LLC in Arkansas is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Arkansas Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Arkansas and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your business. In Arkansas, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. We also provide you with access to our dashboard where you can easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Arkansas Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business With Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Arkansas Secretary of State (SOS)
Once you've gathered all the information for your Arkansas LLC, you’ll need to file your
Articles of Organization
with the Arkansas Secretary of State.
The certificate must include:
Name of your LLC
Principal address of the business
Name, address, and contact information of the Registered Agent
Whether the LLC is will be member-managed or manager-managed
Name(s) and signature(s) of authorized person(s)
Your Articles of Organization can be filed online with the Arkansas Secretary of State, via
their website
, or by mail or in person.
The Arkansas LLC filing fee
is $45, and an additional $5 fee is require if you choose to file a paper form.
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, however all LLCs in Arkansas must file an annual report via
their online service
once a year to remain compliant with the Secretary of State. There is a fee of $155 set by the AR Secretary of State for this service.
The annual report fee also takes care of the Arkansas Franchise Tax which has recently been updated. As of March 2021, all franchise tax is to be paid to the Secretary of State and is due at the time of your annual report. This combined requirement has now been labeled an "Annual Franchise Tax Report."
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Arkansas State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the fees and requirements to form a business in Arkansas?
State Fee
$45
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
5 Business Days
*$45 if completed online, $50 if completed via paper form
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
May 1st
Filing Fee
$155
Note
Initial report due May 1st of the year following formation or qualification.
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) From the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can obtain one directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the Arkansas LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
An operating agreement is a kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business. An
LLC Operating Agreement
will outline key components of your business - how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Although some states require businesses to have this document in place, you're not legally required to have an
Arkansas Operating Agreement
in place to conduct business in Arkansas. We do recommend having one for your business nonetheless
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now for Free
Other Arkansas LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Arkansas—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Arkansas Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Texas
Secretary of State
Department of Labor and Licensing
Department of Finance and Administration
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Arkansas LLC
How to search the Arkansas business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving an Arkansas LLC name, and more.
2
Arkansas Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Arkansas LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
Arkansas Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now