What makes us different? 5 major benefits that set us apart.
Learn More
Business Formation
Form a Business
Form an LLC
Form an S Corporation
Form a C Corporation
Form a Nonprofit
Services
Business Virtual Address
Personal Virtual Address
EIN / Tax ID
Assumed Business Name (DBA)
Business License / Permit
Trademark Registration
Corporate LLC Kit
Support
Guide to Starting a Business
Choosing a Business Structure
Business Name Generator
Business Name Search
LLC Information by State
Corp Information by State
Startup Central
Contact
Business Management
Services
Annual Report
Registered Agent Service
Amendment
Foreign Qualification
Certificate of Good Standing
Form 2553 (S Corp Tax)
Change Registered Agent
Reinstatement
Dissolve Your Company
Support
Bookkeeping Consultation (Free)
Tax Consultation (Free)
Startup Central
Contact
About Bizee
About Us
What Makes Us Different
Incfile Is Now Bizee
Contact
Phone Support
Phone Support:
1 (888) 462-3453
Available at:
Monday - Friday: 9 am - 6 pm CST
Log in
Log in
Get Started
Get Started
Have Bizee do the work for you $0 + state fee
California LLC
What is an LLC?
How to Start an LLC in California
Benefits of Forming an LLC in California
Pros and Cons of Different Business Entities
Maintaining Compliance for Your California LLC
Launch Your Business With Bizee
Costs
Filing Forms
Business Taxes
Doing Business In CA
Form Your Business
Form for $0 (+ State Fee) with a
Free 1st Year of Registered Agent
GET STARTED
GET STARTED
The Ultimate Guide to Starting a California LLC
Starting an LLC in California? Here's the truth: it takes just a few steps, a solid name, and about 70 bucks. That’s it. If you’re ready to stop planning and start doing, Bizee’s $0 (+ state fees) formation service can get you across the starting line. There’s no reason to wait, right?
Start Your Business Today for $0 + CA State Fee.
CREATE YOUR LLC NOW
CREATE YOUR LLC NOW
New companies also enjoy one free year of our Registered Agent service.
6 min read
TrustPilot TrustScore 4.6
|
21,889
      reviews
California LLC formation requires two separate filings, including Articles of Incorporation and a Statement of Information. However, there are a few things you will need before you can complete the forms.
Planning for your
first-year LLC costs
while staying compliant and setting your company up for real success takes more than just paperwork. It takes a strategy. Bizee’s here to help. Check out our full guide to first-year LLC costs, filing forms, tax planning, and what it takes to do business in California.
What is an LLC?
An LLC is a business structure that combines the best features of a corporation and a partnership. Imagine having the legal protections of a corporation (meaning your personal assets are generally safe from business debts) with a partnership’s tax benefits and operational simplicity. It’s no wonder LLCs are so popular among California business owners.
Forming an LLC is not the same as getting a business license, which is typically issued by the city or county in which your company operates.
How to Start an LLC in California
California LLC formation requires two separate filings, including Articles of Incorporation and a Statement of Information. However, there are a few things you will need before you can complete the forms.
Step 1: Choose a Name for Your LLC
First things first: you need a name for your LLC that is unique. No two LLCs may have the same name in the same state, so use our
California entity search tool
to check for name availability. Keep in mind that your LLC business name must include “LLC,” “L.L.C.,” or “Limited Liability Company."
If you’re still in the brainstorming phase, check out our complete guide on
finding a name for your California LLC.
Step 2: Appoint a Registered Agent
A registered agent will receive legal documents on behalf of your LLC. Your
California registered agent
must have a physical address in the state and be available during business hours. The registered agent could be you, someone in your company, or a professional service.
Step 3: File Articles of Organization
Next, you must file
Articles of Organization
(Form LLC-1) with the California Secretary of State. This form includes your LLC’s name, purpose, address, and registered agent information. You’ll also need to pay a $70 filing fee, or $75 for a certified copy. Processing times typically range from 3-8 business days, but expedited service options are available.
Step 4: Create an Operating Agreement
California is one of the few states that requires LLCs to create an operating agreement. The good news is that it doesn’t have to be filed with the state. It doesn’t even have to be written down, if you prefer dictation and audio files. In truth, you should
create an operating agreement
whether it’s required or not. These documents outline your LLC’s management, members’ roles, and decision-making details. It’s like a roadmap for your business operations and can be invaluable for settling any disputes that may arise.
Step 5: Apply for an EIN
An employer identification number (EIN) is like a Social Security number for your business. You’ll need it for tax purposes, opening a business bank account, and hiring employees. You can get a free EIN from the IRS or use
Bizee’s EIN service
as part of our standard or premium formation packages.
Step 6: File a Statement of Information
Within 90 days of forming your LLC, you must file a
Statement of Information
(Form LLC-12) with the California Secretary of State. This form provides information about your LLC’s managers, members, and business address. It must be filed every two years.
CREATE YOUR LLC
CREATE YOUR LLC
Benefits of Forming an LLC in California
Most people form LLCs for the financial benefits, but they’re also easier to manage than corporations. Generally speaking, you won’t need to hold as many meetings or deal with as much paperwork. You will have more time to focus on running your business, while also enjoying peace of mind and extra tax savings.
Limited Liability Protection
One of the biggest perks of an LLC is that it protects your personal assets, even if your business encounters financial trouble or gets sued.
For instance, if Jane’s Bakery LLC faces a lawsuit, Jane generally won’t have to worry about having her car, house, or retirement savings seized.
Tax Flexibility
With LLCs, you can choose to be taxed as a sole proprietorship, partnership, S corporation, or C corporation. S corporations are an especially popular choice, since they allow the owner to pay themselves a modest salary (which is subject to self-employment taxes) and then allocate the rest of the income as a business distribution (which isn’t subject to this additional tax). Learn about the
tax advantages and strategies
for California LLCs.
Pros and Cons of Different Business Entities
The one big limitation of an LLC is that it doesn’t permit you to issue stocks or shares, making it difficult to raise lots of capital quickly. In California, however, you can have an unlimited number of members or owners in your LLC including different ownership units, or interests.
Here is an easy reference guide to the basic properties of various business entities in California. Need more information? Learn more about
forming a corporation in California.
Structure
CREATE YOUR LLC
CREATE YOUR LLC
Maintaining Compliance for Your California LLC
Right off the bat, you may need to apply for a local business license and consider whether you need foreign qualification to do business in other states. Moving forward, you’ll need to pay annual taxes and fees and renew any business licenses and permits. It’s relatively easy to make changes to your LLC with amendment filing forms or
create a fictitious name
that you want to do business as. You can also change or add to your operating agreement at any time to reflect new company policies and practices.
Get all the details with our
LLC guide to doing business in California.
Launch Your Business With Bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
START NOW
START NOW
Guide to Starting a California LLC
California LLC
What is an LLC?
How to Start an LLC in California
Benefits of Forming an LLC in California
Pros and Cons of Different Business Entities
Maintaining Compliance for Your California LLC
Launch Your Business With Bizee
Costs
Filing Forms
Business Taxes
Doing Business In CA