Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create
a Connecticut
LLC?
The state offers numerous benefits to entrepreneurs, including
several tax incentives
and
small business funding
, provided your LLC meets specific criteria.
For example, if your business employs fewer than 100 people, has been registered to conduct business in Connecticut for at least 12 months and meets a few other requirements, you may qualify for the
Small Business Express Program
. The program offers funding for the purchase of machinery and equipment, training, working capital and other business necessities.
For most people looking to start a business, the fastest and easiest way is to create a Connecticut limited liability company (LLC), a type of business entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. It gives you the advantages and protections that larger corporations benefit from, but with simplified rules and regulations.
The Benefits of Starting a Connecticut LLC:
Protects your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation and administration
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Low filing fee ($120)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Connecticut business taxes
and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC and how you'll interact with the CT Secretary of State.
How to Form a Connecticut LLC Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a Connecticut LLC Search
You’ll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using our
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Connecticut Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Connecticut. To find out whether another company is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. Alternatively, you can
carry out a name search
on the CT Secretary of State website.
Use Bizee’s Business Name Search Tool
We can search the Connecticut business registry for you.
Use Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Address for Your LLC
Whether it’s an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every LLC in Connecticut must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the CT Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent. Every LLC in Connecticut is required to have one.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Connecticut Registered Agent
is a person, they must reside and have a physical street address in Connecticut and must be present during business hours to receive important documents for your company. In Connecticut, you designate your Registered Agent when you file your Certificate of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee's packages include Registered Agent service that's free for the first year and just $119 per year afterward. We also provide a dashboard where you can log in and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Connecticut Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Certificate of Formation with the CT Secretary of State
Most states call this document Articles of Organization. In Connecticut, it's a Certificate of Organization. Once you've gathered all the information for your LLC, you’ll need to file this document with the CT Secretary of State to officially create your business.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be perpetual or limited)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download the Certificate of Organization Form Here
Your Certificate of Formation
can be filed online
via the state's digital portal. You can also mail the form to the Office of the Secretary of State, or Bizee can file it on your behalf. The
Connecticut LLC filing fee
is $120.
Note:
As of July 2017, when the revised Connecticut LLC Act went into effect, you are
no longer required
to state the purpose of your business in the Certificate of Organization.
File by Mail
Business Services Division
CT Secretary of the State
P.O. Box 150470
Hartford, CT 06115-0470
You only need to file your Certificate of Organization once, but every year after, you must file an annual report for your LLC. This is something Bizee can remind you to do, or we can do it for you if you have us handle the paperwork.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Connecticut State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Connecticut?
State Fee
$120
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
5 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
April 1st
Filing Fee
$80
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can obtain one
directly from the IRS
, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Connecticut LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Many states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place. It isn’t legally required in Connecticut, but it’s a good idea to have one to protect your business and yourself.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Connecticut LLC Types
Professional LLC
Some states, including Connecticut, allow certain occupations to form Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). A Connecticut PLLC may only have
licensed individuals as shareholders
, such as dentists, chiropractors, physicians and surgeons, veterinarians, architects, professional engineers, landscape architects, real estate brokers, insurance producers, accountants, land surveyors, psychologists, attorneys and therapists.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business operates in another state and you want to expand into Connecticut — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Connecticut Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Connecticut
Secretary of State
Department of Labor
Department of Revenue Services
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your Connecticut LLC
How to search the state business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving a Connecticut LLC name and more.
2
Connecticut Registered Agent
How to appoint, change and search for a Registered Agent. Also includes the rules an agent is required to follow.
3
Connecticut LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you’ll need to meet for both state and federal rules. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Connecticut Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you'll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now