Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Start a Florida LLC?
The state offers numerous
business and tax incentives
that make it even easier — and more lucrative — to start and run a business in Florida.
For example, the state's
Brownfield Incentives
offer bonuses and tax refunds to businesses that locate and create jobs (up to $2,500 per job created) on a
Brownfield site.
For most people who want to start a business, creating a Florida Limited Liability Company (LLC) is the easiest and fastest way. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses because it offers the advantages and protections of larger corporations, but with simpler rules and regulations.
Benefits of Starting a Florida LLC:
Separates and limits your personal liability from your business liability and debts
A low filing fee of just $125 (including the $25 Registered Agent designation fee)
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation, and administration
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
No state income tax, so you get to keep more of your earnings
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay, business taxes and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC and how you'll interact with the Florida Secretary of State.
How to Form a Florida LLC Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a State Business Search
You'll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not being used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try our
Business Name Generator
for ideas. You'll need to adhere to a few naming rules, which you can learn more about on our
Florida Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Florida. To find out whether another company in the state is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
Florida entity search
. You can also
carry out a name search
on Sunbiz, the online portal provided by the Florida Division of Corporations.
We Can Search the Florida Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Every Florida LLC must have a designated street address. That could be your home address (if you’re running the company from your residence), your company’s office building, or any other physical address. The address can be outside the state of Florida, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
You may also be able to use a virtual mailbox for your business address. Bizee can provide you with a
Florida virtual mailbox
, where we'll receive your mail and scan it for your online review. This can be especially convenient if you run a home-based business and don't want your home address published as part of your public business record.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Florida Secretary of State is known as a Registered Agent. Every Florida LLC is required to have a Registered Agent.
You can fill this position, assign another manager in your business or use a Registered Agent service. If your
Florida Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Florida and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company.
You'll appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Certificate of Formation to create your business, and they must formally accept the appointment by filing an Acceptance of Appointment and Consent to Serve as Registered Agent form with the Secretary of State.
All of Bizee’s business formation packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also access a digital dashboard to view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Florida Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Florida Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your business, you’ll file the Articles of Organization to officially create your Florida LLC.
The certificate must include:
A cover letter with your name, address, and daytime phone number
Your business name and address
Your Registered Agent's information
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Download Florida’s Articles of Organization Form Here
You can file your Articles of Organization online on the
Sunbiz.org website
, mail in a form or have Bizee do it on your behalf for free. The State of Florida charges $125 to start an LLC: $100 to file your Articles of Organization and $25 to designate your Registered Agent.
File by Mail
New Filing Section
Division of Corporations
P.O. Box 6327
Tallahassee, FL 32314
Submit in Person
New Filing Section Division
The Centre of Tallahassee
2415 N. Monroe Street, Suite 810
Tallahassee, FL 3230
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you'll need to file an annual report for your LLC, which has its own fees. This is also something Bizee can remind you to do or do for you if you have us handle the paperwork.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Florida State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
Can I Expedite the Formation of My Business in Florida?
The State of Florida does not offer expedited filing for LLCs and will process online filings in the order in which they are received. 

However, Bizee can internally expedite your order to ensure the fastest delivery to the state for filing.
State Fee
$125
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
5 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
May 1st
Filing Fee
$139
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or we can get one for you as part of the Florida LLC business formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
An Operating Agreement is a kind of “instruction manual” that outlines how you'll run your business. It includes how decisions are made, how the business is divided amongst members, and what happens if a member leaves the company.
Many states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place — it isn’t legally required in Florida, but it’s a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Florida LLC Types
Series LLC
Florida does not allow the formation of Series LLCs.
Professional LLC
Some states, including Florida, allow certain occupations to form Professional LLCs. These types of businesses typically have
special requirements and licensing
.
Foreign LLC
If your business operates in another state and you want to expand into Florida — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.Learn more about
Florida Foreign LLC
requirements.
Learn more about
Florida Foreign LLC
requirements.
Helpful Resources from the State of Florida
Department of State
Department of Economic Opportunity
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
Florida Business Names
How to search the state business registry to find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving a Florida LLC name and more.
2
Florida Registered Agents
How to appoint a Florida Registered Agent to your new LLC or change to a different Registered Agent. Includes information on Registered Agent rules and searching for Florida Registered Agents.
3
Florida LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you’ll need to meet for both federal and Florida rules. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), Florida and federal business licenses, Florida annual reports and more.
4
Florida Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you'll need to pay to the federal and Florida government. Includes details of federal taxes like income and self-employment and Florida taxes like sales tax.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now