Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Start
a Hawaii LLC?
The state of Hawaii offers several different types of
business incentives,
provided your LLC meets specific criteria. For example, The Enterprise Zones (EZ) Partnership Program gives State & County benefits to companies in an effort to stimulate business activity, job preservation, and job creation in areas where they are most appropriate or most needed. If you take advantage of the EZ Partnership Program, you may be able to reduce your state taxes and receive other county benefits for up to seven years.
For entrepreneurs wanting to start a business in the Aloha State, creating a Hawaii limited liability company (LLC) is the fastest and easiest way. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Hawaii corporations benefit from, but with simplified rules and regulations.
If an LLC isn't the right entity for the type of business you're starting, you may want to consider forming a
Hawaii Corporation
instead.
Benefits of starting a Hawaii LLC:
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Simple to create, manage, regulate, administer and stay in compliance
Low cost to file ($51)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Hawaii business taxes
and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC and how you'll interact with the Hawaii Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs, Business Registration Division (BREG).
How to Form a Hawaii LLC Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Hawaii LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You’ll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. Try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas if you’re having trouble coming up with a name. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Hawaii Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Hawaii. To find out whether another company in the state is using your desired business name, use our tool to do a
business name search.
You can also carry out a name search on the Hawaii Business Express
online database.
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool. We can search the state of Hawaii business registry for you.
Use Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Every LLC in Hawaii must have a designated street address, regardless of whether it’s an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location. It can be outside the state, and it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Hawaii Business Registration Division (BREG). Every LLC in Hawaii is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Hawaii Registered Agent
is a person, they must be present and available during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company, and have a physical street address in Hawaii. In Hawaii, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally form your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Hawaii Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Hawaii Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs, Business Registration Division (BREG)
Once you've gathered all the information for your Hawaii LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the Hawaii DCCA, BREG via email, mail, fax, or in person, or register an account and
complete it online.
The articles must include:
Entity name
The address of the principal office
Whether the company will be an LLC or a PLLC
Registered agent and contact information
Names and addresses of organizers
Period of duration (can be indefinite)
Whether it will be member-managed or manager-managed
Names and addresses of initial managers or members
Your Articles of Organization can be filed online with the
HI Business Express
portal, you can email, fax, or hand deliver them to the Office of the Secretary of State, or you can have Bizee do it on your behalf. The
Hawaii LLC filing fee
is $51.
File by Mail
Department of Commerce and Consumer
Affairs
Business Registration Division
P.O. Box 40
Honolulu, HI 96810
File in Person
335 Merchant Street, Room 201
Honolulu, HI 96813
File via Email
breg-doci-filing@dcca.hawaii.gov
Filing Fee
There is no charge for the Public Information Report. The Franchise Tax Fee is based on the revenue of the LLC.
File via Fax
(808) 586-2733
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you must
file an annual report.
The fee for this, set by the Hawaii DCCA, BREG, is $15. Bizee can either remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Hawaii State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Hawaii?
State Fee
$51*
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
3 Business Days
*includes online processing fee
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
The annual report or annual statement due date is dependent on the registration date. If the registration falls between:
January 1 and March 31, the annual report or statement is due by March 31 of each year;
April 1 and June 30, the annual report or statement is due by June 30 of each year,
July 1 and September 30, the annual report or statement is due by September 30 of each year,
October 1 and December 31, the annual report or statement is due by December 31 of each year
Filing Fee
$15
Filing Fee
There is no charge for the Public Information Report. The Franchise Tax Fee is based on the revenue of the LLC.
Filing Fee
There is no charge for the Public Information Report. The Franchise Tax Fee is based on the revenue of the LLC.
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Hawaii LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have this document in place. You're not legally required to have a
Hawaii LLC Operating Agreement,
but it’s a good idea to have one regardless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Hawaii LLC Types
Professional LLC
Different from professional corporations, Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Hawaii—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Hawaii Foreign LLC registration.
Helpful Resources from the State of Hawaii
State of Hawaii
Hawaii Business Express
Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs
More Information in This Guide
1
Hawaii Business Names
How to search the Hawaii business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving a Hawaii LLC name and more.
2
Hawaii Registered Agent Service
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Hawaii LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Hawaii Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now