Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create an Idaho LLC?
Within the state of Idaho, business owners can take advantage of several
business incentives and grants
made available by the Idaho Department of Commerce, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. For example, workforce development reimbursements allow businesses to receive up to $3,000 in cash reimbursements for the training of new, full-time employees or for helping retain employees facing permanent layoff through
workforce development training reimbursements
.
Creating an Idaho limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way for entrepreneurs looking to start a business in Idaho. With more simplified rules and regulations, an LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Idaho corporations benefit from.
Benefits of Starting an Idaho LLC:
Create, manage, regulate, administer, and stay in compliance easily
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
State fee as mentioned above
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Idaho business taxes
, and much more. We also cover your registration needs, filing your Idaho LLC, and how you'll correspond with the Idaho Secretary of State (SOS).
How to Form an Idaho LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete an Idaho LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
To start the process, you’ll need a name for your LLC that’s different, unique, and stands out, but one that’s not used by any other business or formed entity in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Idaho Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it is available in Idaho. To find out whether another company in the state is already using your preferred business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also carry out a name search on the Idaho Secretary of State's
business entity database
.
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence), or any other physical location, every Idaho LLC must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the state of Idaho, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Idaho Secretary of State (SOS). Every LLC in Idaho is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business, or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Idaho Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Idaho and be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your business. In Idaho, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Certificate of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Idaho Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Certificate of Formation With the Iowa Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Idaho LLC, you’ll need to file your
Certificate of Organization
with the Idaho SOS using their
online business portal
.
The certificate must include:
Name of your LLC
The principal address
Registered Agent name and address
Name and address of at least one governor of the LLC
Name(s) and signature(s) of authorized person(s)
Your Certificate of Organization should be filed online with the Idaho Secretary of State business portal for an
Idaho LLC filing fee
of $100, or you can file in person or by mail for an extra service fee of $20 (a total of $120).
File by Mail
Office of the Secretary of State
PO Box 83720
Boise ID 83720-0080
File in Person
Office of the Secretary of State
450 N 4th Street
Boise ID 83720-0080
You only need to file your Certificate of Organization once, but you must file an annual report every year with the Idaho SOS. Complete your annual report by filing it online via the business portal
Idaho SOSbiz
. There is no fee to complete and file your annual report with the Secretary of State. Bizee can either remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Iowa State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What Are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Idaho?
State Fee
$105
State Filling Time
6 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
6 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Within 60 days immediately preceding first day of anniversary month.
Filing Fee
$0
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the Idaho LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details key components of your business - how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members, and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Although some states require businesses to have this document in place, you're not legally required to have an
Idaho LLC Operating Agreement
. We do however think that it's a good idea to have one regardless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Idaho LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Idaho — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Idaho Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Idaho
Idaho Secretary of State
Idaho SOSbiz Portal
Idaho State Tax Commission
Idaho Department of Labor
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
Idaho Business Names
How to search the state business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving an Idaho LLC name and more.
2
Idaho Registered Agent Service
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Idaho LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Idaho Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now