Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create an Illinois LLC?
Entrepreneurs can take advantage of
numerous business incentives
, tax credits and tax exemptions in Illinois. One such incentive is the
Economic Development for a Growing Economy Tax Credit Program
(EDGE). This program provides annual tax credits to qualifying businesses that support capital investment and job creation, and have a positive effect on Illinois residents' standard of living.
The state also provides grants and loans to help businesses buy necessities such as machinery, equipment and land, provided the business will benefit the community.
For most people, the fastest and easiest way to start a business in Illinois is by creating an Illinois limited liability company (LLC), a type of business entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. An LLC offers many of the advantages and protections of larger Illinois corporations, but with much simpler rules and regulations.
Benefits of starting an Illinois LLC:
Separate and limit your personal liability from your business liability and debts
The franchise tax is being phased out (
scheduled for repeal
on December 31, 2025)
Easily and quickly file, manage, ensure compliance, regulate and administer of your Illinois LLC
Easy tax filing and possible advantages for tax treatment
Low cost to file ($150)
Learn more about the
LLC business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, how to get a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay, how to navigate
Illinois business taxes
and much more. We’ll also explain what you'll need to register and file your LLC, and how you'll interact with the Illinois Secretary of State.
How to Form an Illinois LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete an Illinois LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You’ll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state, whether in
Chicago
or Champaign. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using our
Business Name Generator
to get ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Illinois Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Illinois. To find out whether another company is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also
conduct a name search
on the Illinois Secretary of State website.
We Can Search the Illinois Secretary of State Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Whether it's an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence), or any other physical location, every LLC in Illinois must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, but it cannot be a P.O. box.
To make this easier, consider using a virtual mailbox for your business address. Bizee can provide you with an
Illinois virtual mailbox
, where we'll receive mail on your behalf and scan it for you to review online. This is a smart move if you run a home-based business because it will protect your home address from being published as part of your business public record.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Illinois Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent. Every LLC in Illinois must have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Illinois Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Illinois, and they’re required to be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company. In Illinois, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year afterward. You can also log in to our easy-to-use online dashboard where you can easily view any document your Registered Agent has received on behalf of your business.
Learn More About Illinois Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Form Your LLC with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization
After you have all the information for your Illinois LLC, the next step is to
file a form
with the Illinois Secretary of State to create your Articles of Organization. Filing it officially creates your LLC.
Here’s what’s usually included:
Your business name and address
Registered Agent details
Business purpose
Duration (if limited; if not specified, duration is perpetual by default)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Names and addresses of organizers
Download Form LLC-5.5 Here
You can file your Illinois Articles of Organization through the Illinois Secretary of State's
online filing system
, by mailing a form to the Office of the Secretary of State or by having Bizee do it on your behalf. The
Illinois LLC filing fee
is $150.
File by Mail
Office of the Illinois Secretary of State
Department of Business Services
Limited Liability Division
501 S. Second St., Rm. 351
Springfield, IL 62756
You’re only required to file your Articles of Organization once upon formation, but you will need to file an annual report every year thereafter. Bizee can either remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Note:
In Illinois, Articles of Organization and Articles of Incorporation are not the same thing. The former is for LLCs and the latter is for corporations.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Illinois State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the fees and requirements to form a business in Illinois?
State Fee
$154*
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Days
*includes online processing fees
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Within 60 days immediately preceding first day of anniversary month.
Filing Fee
$77*
*includes  processing fee
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can obtain one directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Illinois LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that details how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
outlines how business decisions will be made, how the business is set up among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place. It isn’t legally required in Illinois, but it’s a good idea to have one anyway to protect your business.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Illinois LLC Types
Series LLC
In Illinois, you have the option to set up a Series LLC. This is a specialized entity designed to allow you to manage multiple separate LLCs under one master LLC. This is a useful option if you don’t want to set up a separate LLC for every individual business you run.
To apply for a Series LLC, Illinois requires that you complete a
Certificate of Designation
form and pay a filing fee of $50.
Decide whether an Illinois Series LLC
is right for your business
.
Professional LLC
Some states, including Illinois, allow certain businesses to form Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). An Illinois Professional LLC will typically require members to be licensed, and impose other specialized requirements as well.
But an Illinois PLLC isn't always necessary. The
state also allows
standard LLCs to be formed to provide professional services, such as the practice of medicine or dentistry, provided all the members are licensed.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Illinois—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Illinois Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Illinois
Secretary of State
Department of Employment Security
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your Illinois LLC
How to find the best name for your business by searching the Illinois Secretary of State's business registry. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving an LLC name and more.
2
Illinois Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents, and the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Illinois Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you'll pay and the requirements you must meet for both state and federal rules. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Illinois Business Taxes
Information you need to understand the various taxes you'll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes, such as sales and income taxes, and federal taxes, such as income and self-employment taxes.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now