Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create an Indiana LLC?
The State offers
various opportunities
for businesses to thrive, such as business tax incentives, corporate tax credits, and economic development programs. The business tax structure in Indiana is also changing in 2021 to better serve Indiana businesses. Indiana’s corporate income tax will be decreasing to 4.9%.
The state also offers a
variety of programs
to support new business startups and business expansion and growth.
Creating an Indiana limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way for entrepreneurs to form a business in Indiana. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Indiana corporations benefit from, with more simplified rules and regulations.
The State offers
various opportunities
for businesses to thrive, such as business tax incentives, corporate tax credits, and economic development programs. The business tax structure in Indiana is also changing in 2021 to better serve Indiana businesses. Indiana’s corporate income tax will be decreasing to 4.9%.
The state also offers a
variety of programs
to support new business startups and business expansion and growth.
Creating an Indiana limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way for entrepreneurs to form a business in Indiana. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Indiana corporations benefit from, with more simplified rules and regulations.
Benefits of Starting a Indiana LLC:
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Easy creation, management, regulation, administration, and compliance
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Low cost to file ($100)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In Bizee’s in-depth guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Indiana business taxes
, and much more. We also cover filing your Indiana LLC, your registration needs, and how you'll interact with the Indiana Secretary of State (SOS), Business Services Division.
Starting a Business in Indiana Checklist
To help you along the way, use our
Starting a Business checklist
to keep track of everything you need to do to get your business up and running.
To help you along the way, use our
Starting a Business checklist
to keep track of everything you need to do to get your business up and running.
How to Form an LLC in Indiana Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete an Indiana LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You’ll need a name for your LLC that’s original and stands out, but one that’s not used by any other entity in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Indiana Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name for your business, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Indiana. To find out whether another company in the state is currently using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also carry out a name search on the Indiana
online database
.
We Can Search the State of Indiana Business Registry for You
Use Bizee’s Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Address for your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence), or any other physical location, every LLC in Indiana must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the State of Indiana, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Indiana Secretary of State, Business Services Division. Every LLC in Indiana is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business, or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your Indiana Registered Agent is a person, they must have a physical street address in Indiana and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company. You’ll appoint your
Indiana Registered Agent
when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your LLC.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Indiana Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business With Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Indiana Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Indiana LLC, you’ll need to file your Articles of Organization with the Indiana SOS, Business Services Division or register an account and
complete it online
.
The articles must include:
The name of the LLC
The period duration of the LLC
The name and street address of the Registered Agent
If the Operating Agreement vests management in a manager(s), a statement to that effect
The signature of at least one organizer, member, or manager
The State of Indiana prefers that your Articles of Organization
be filed online
via INBIZ — Indiana’s one-stop business resource. You can also email, fax, or hand-deliver
the form
to the Office of the Secretary of State, Business Services Division, or you can have Bizee file your articles on your behalf. The
Indiana LLC filing fee
is $100.
File in Person
Business Services Division
302 W. Washington Street
Room E-018
Indianapolis, IN 46204
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but you must
file business entity reports
every two years after. The fee for this, set by the Indiana SOS, is $50. Bizee can either remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Indiana State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What Are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Indiana?
State Fee
$98
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Day
Annual Report
Frequency
Biennially
Due Date
Every other year in the anniversary month of the business forming.
Filing Fee
$32
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can obtain one directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee get an EIN for you as part of the Indiana LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details key components of your business — how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members, and what will occur if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have this document in place. You're not legally required to have an
Indiana LLC Operating Agreement
, but it’s a good idea to have one regardless and the State of Indiana recommends it.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Indiana LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Indiana — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Indiana Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Indiana
Indiana Government
Indiana Secretary of State
Indiana Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Indiana LLC
How to search the state business registry and how to name your Indiana LLC. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving a name, and more.
2
Indiana Registered Agents
How to appoint, change, and search for Indiana Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Indiana LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various Indiana LLC fees and requirements you'll need to pay and meet, both state and federal. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
Indiana Business Tax Rules
How to understand the various Indiana business tax rules and what you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes, such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now