Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create an Iowa LLC?
The state of Iowa offers various opportunities for
tax credits and exemptions
for businesses, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. The state of Iowa has also implemented an interesting
Sales Tax Holiday
. This holiday gives businesses selling clothing and footwear a period of time every year where they are exempt from charging a sales tax or local option tax. From 12:01am on the first Friday of August until 12:00am the following day, businesses are exempt from charging sales or local option taxes on clothing and footwear items valued at $100 or less.
Creating an Iowa limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way for entrepreneurs to start a business in Iowa. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Iowa corporations benefit from, with more simplified rules and regulations.
Benefits of Starting an Iowa LLC:
Protects your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Create, manage, regulate, administer, and stay in compliance easily
Low cost to file ($50)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Iowa business taxes
and much more. We also cover your registration needs, filing your Iowa LLC and how you'll correspond with the Iowa Secretary of State (SOS).
How to Form an LLC in Iowa Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete an Iowa LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You’ll need a name for your LLC that’s original and stands out, but one that’s not used by any other formed business or incorporation in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Iowa Business Names page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Iowa. To find out whether another company in the state is already using your preferred business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also carry out a name search on the Iowa Secretary of State
online database
.
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every LLC in Iowa must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the state of Iowa, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Iowa Secretary of State. Every LLC in Iowa is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Iowa Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Iowa and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company. In Iowa, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Certificate of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Iowa Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Certificate of Formation With the Iowa Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Iowa LLC, you’ll need to file a
certificate of organization
with the Iowa Secretary of State.
The certificate must include:
Entity name
The address of the principal office
Registered agent and contact information
Names and addresses of organizers
Period of duration (can be indefinite)
Whether it will be member-managed or manager-managed
Your Certificate of Organization can be filed online by using a
Fast Track Filing
system. The Iowa Secretary of State has set up this system for all business entity filings, so you’ll need to create an account to file any business related forms and documents. The
Iowa LLC filing fee
is $50.
You only need to file your Certificate of Organization once, but you must
file a biennial report
every odd year, as dictated by
Iowa Legislature
. The fee for this, set by the Iowa SOS, is $60. Bizee can either remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Iowa State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the fees and requirements to form a business in Iowa?
State Fee
$50
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
7 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Biennially
Due Date
Between January 1 and April 1 of the first odd-numbered year following the calendar year in which an LLC was formed
Filing Fee
$30
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can obtain one directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the Iowa LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details key components of your business — how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Although some states require that a company have this document in place, you're not legally required to have an Iowa
LLC Operating Agreement
. We think it’s still a good idea to have one regardless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Iowa LLC Types
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Iowa — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Iowa Foreign LLC registration
.
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Helpful Resources From the State of Iowa
Secretary of State
Iowa Department of Revenue
Iowa Legislature
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your Iowa LLC
How to search the Iowa business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving an Iowa LLC name and more.
2
Iowa Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Iowa LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Iowa Business Tax Rules
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now