Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a Kansas LLC?
Within the state of Kansas, business owners can take advantage of several
business incentives and financing
made available by the Kansas Department of Commerce, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. For example the
Promoting Employment Across Kansas (PEAK)
offers qualified companies the ability to retain 95% of their payroll withholding tax for up to 5 to 10 years.
For entrepreneurs looking to start a business in Kansas, creating a Kansas limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way. With more simplified rules and regulations, an LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Kansas corporations benefit from.
Benefits of Starting a Kansas LLC:
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Create, manage, regulate, administer, and stay in compliance easily
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Low cost to file ($160)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay
Kansas business taxes
and much more. We also cover your registration needs, filing your Kansas LLC and how you'll correspond with the Kansas Secretary of State (SOS).
How to Form a Kansas LLC Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Kansas LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
To start the process, you’ll need a name for your LLC that’s different, unique and stands out, but one that’s not used by any other business or formed entity in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using
Bizee’s Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Kansas Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Kansas. To find out whether another company in the state is already using your preferred business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also carry out a name search on the Kansas Secretary of State's
business entity database
.
We Can Search the State of Alaska Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every Kansas LLC must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the state of Kansas, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Resident Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Kansas Secretary of State (SOS). In some states they are referred to as a Registered Agent. Every LLC in Kansas is required to have a Resident Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business or a dedicated Resident Agent service. If your
Kansas Resident Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Kansas and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your business. In Kansas, you appoint your Resident Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Resident Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Kansas Resident Agents
Get a Free Resident Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Kansas Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Kansas LLC, you’ll need to file your
Articles of Organization
with the Kansas SOS using their
online business portal
.
The certificate must include:
Name of your LLC
Registered agent and contact information
Names and signatures of all organizer
Your Articles of Organization should be filed online with the Kansas Secretary of State business portal for a
Kansas LLC filing fee
of $160, or you can file in person or by mail for an extra service fee of $5 (a total of $165).
File by Mail or In Person
Memorial Hall, 1st Floor
120 SW 10th Avenue
Topeka, KS 66612-1594
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but you must file an annual report every year with the Kansas SOS. Complete your annual report by filing a form and pay a fee of $50 set by the Secretary of State. If you choose to file via mail or in person, there will be an additional service fee of $5. Bizee can either remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Kansas State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the fees and requirements to form a business in Kansas?
State Fee
$160
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Calendar Year: April 15
Fiscal Year: 15th day of 4th month after close of tax year.
Filing Fee
$50-55*
*$50 via online or $55 via mail / in person
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the Kansas LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details key components of your business - how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Although some states require businesses to have this document in place, you're not legally required to have a
Kansas LLC Operating Agreement
. We do however think that it's a good idea to have one regardless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Kansas LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Kansas—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Kansas Foreign LLC registration.
Helpful Resources from the State of Kansas
Kansas Secretary of State
Kansas Department of Revenue
Kansas Department of Labor
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
Kansas Business Names
How to search the Kansas business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving a Kansas LLC name and more.
2
Kansas Resident Agent Service
How to appoint, change and search for Resident Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Kansas LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Kansas Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now