Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a Kentucky LLC?
A central location, strong shipping lanes and major infrastructure make forming an LLC in Kentucky an
easy choice
. The state’s pro-business climate also provides a number of
business incentives
, tax credits and other financial benefits.
For example, the
Kentucky Small Business Tax Credit
program offers between $3,500 and $25,000 per year to small businesses that meet certain requirements, such as creating new jobs or buying necessary equipment or technology.
For most entrepreneurs, the fastest and easiest way to start a business is to create a Kentucky limited liability company (LLC). It’s an entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. It gives you the advantages and protections that larger Kentucky corporations enjoy, but with simplified rules and regulations.
Benefits of Starting a Kentucky LLC:
Low annual report filing fee ($15)
Low filing fee ($40)
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation, and administration
Learn more about the
advantages of an LLC
business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Kentucky business taxes
and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC, and how you'll interact with the Kentucky Secretary of State.
How to Form a Kentucky LLC Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a Kentucky LLC Search
You’ll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
for ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Kentucky Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Kentucky. To find out whether another company is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also
carry out a search
on the Kentucky Secretary of State website.
We can search the Kentucky business registry for you.
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Whether it’s an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every LLC in Kentucky must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, and it can be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence for a business and is responsible for filing reports with the Kentucky Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent. Every LLC in Kentucky must have a Registered Agent at all times.
This official position can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Kentucky Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Kentucky, and they must be present to receive important documents for your company during business hours. In Kentucky, you designate your Registered Agent when you formally create your business.
All of Bizee's packages include Registered Agent service. It's free for the first year and just $119 per year afterward. We provide a dashboard where you can log in and easily view any document your Registered Agent has received on your behalf.
Learn More About Kentucky Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Kentucky Secretary of State
Once you have all the information for your LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the Secretary of State to create your Kentucky Articles of Organization. Filing that form officially creates your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be limited; it's perpetual by default)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download the Form Here
Starting an LLC in Kentucky is easy with the
state's online business portal
, Kentucky One Stop. You can also mail a form to the Office of the Secretary of State or have Bizee file it on your behalf. The
Kentucky LLC filing fee
is $40.
File by Mail or In Person
Office of the Secretary of State Division of Business Filings
P.O. Box 718
Frankfort, KY 40602
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you'll need to file an annual report. Bizee can remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Kentucky State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Kentucky?
State Fee
$40
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
1 Business Day
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Between January 1st and June 30th.
Filing Fee
$15
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You’ll also use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can go directly to the IRS
to get one
, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Kentucky LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place. It isn’t legally required in Kentucky, but it's still beneficial to have one.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Kentucky LLC Types
Professional LLC
Different from professional corporations, Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine.
To form a Kentucky PLLC, you must file a form to create your Articles of Organization, and pay a fee of $40.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one may be right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Kentucky — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Kentucky Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Kentucky
Secretary of State
Labor Cabinet
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your Kentucky LLC
How to search the Kentucky business registry to find a unique name for your business. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving an LLC name and more.
2
Kentucky Resident Agent Service
How to appoint, change and search for Resident Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Kentucky LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various state and federal fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you must meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
Kentucky Business Taxes
Covers the various taxes you’ll have to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details about state taxes such as sales and franchise, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now