Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a Louisiana LLC?
The state offers
numerous business incentives
, provided your LLC meets certain criteria. For example, a $1,000 or $3,500 tax credit for every certified net, new job created, or a rebate of up to 6% on annual payroll expenses for up to 10 years. These kinds of programs make Louisiana a great place to form your LLC.
For most Louisiana entrepreneurs, the fastest and easiest way to start a business is to create a Louisiana limited liability company (LLC), an entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. It gives you the advantages and protections that larger Louisiana corporations benefit from, but with simplified rules and regulations.
If an LLC isn't the right entity for the type of business you're starting, you may want to consider forming a
Louisiana Corporation
instead.
The Benefits of Starting a Louisiana LLC:
Protects your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation, and administration
Low cost to file (Just $100)
Learn more about the
advantages of an LLC
business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Louisiana business taxes
, and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC, and how you'll interact with the Louisiana Secretary of State.
How to Form a Louisiana LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a Louisiana Business Search
You’ll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Louisiana Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Louisiana. To find out whether another company in the state is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also
carry out a name search
on the Louisiana Secretary of State website.
We Can Search the Louisiana Secretary of State Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Whether it’s an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence), or any other physical location, every LLC in Louisiana must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, but it cannot be a P.O. box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and has responsibility for filing reports with the Louisiana Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent. Every LLC in Louisiana is required to have a Registered Agent.
This official position can be filled by you, another manager in the business, or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Louisiana Registered Agent
is a person, they must reside and have a physical street address in Louisiana, and they must be present to receive important documents for your company during business hours. In Louisiana, you designate your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and officially create your business.
Bizee's business formation packages include Registered Agent service that is free for the first year and just $119 per year afterward. We also have a dashboard where you can log in and easily view any document your Registered Agent has received on your behalf.
Learn More About Louisiana Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Form Your LLC with Bizee
Step 4: File Articles of Organization With the Louisiana Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Louisiana LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the Louisiana Secretary of State, which creates your Articles of Organization, and officially forms your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be temporary; perpetual by default)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Names and addresses of organizers
Download Form RS 12:1301 Here
You can file your Louisiana Articles of Organization online with the Secretary of State
geauxBIZ online business portal
, mail a form to the Office of the Secretary of State, or have Bizee do it on your behalf. The
Louisiana LLC filing fee
is $100.
File by Mail
State of Louisiana Secretary of State
P.O. Box 94125
Baton Rouge, LA 70804
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you'll need to file an annual report. This is also something Bizee can remind you to do, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Louisiana State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What Are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Louisiana?
State Fee
$105*
State Filling Time
4 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Day
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
On or before 1st day of anniversary month of organization.
Filing Fee
$35
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can
obtain one directly from the IRS
, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Louisiana LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members, and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place. It isn’t legally required in Louisiana, but it’s a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Louisiana LLC Types
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Louisiana — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC. Learn more about
Louisiana Foreign LLC registration
.
Professional LLC
Some states allow certain types of businesses to form Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). This type of LLC will typically require members to be licensed, and impose other specialized requirements as well.
Unlike what is available in other states, there is no Louisiana PLLC option. Instead, groups of licensed professionals, such as attorneys, architects, engineers, and physicians can choose to
form a Professional Corporation
.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Helpful Resources from the State of Louisiana
Secretary of State
Workforce Commission
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your Louisiana LLC
How to search the Louisiana Secretary of State's business registry to find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, trade names, reserving an LLC name, and more.
2
Louisiana Registered Agents
How to appoint, change, and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Louisiana LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you must meet for both state and federal rules. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
Louisiana Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you'll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes, such as sales and income taxes, and federal taxes, such as income and self-employment taxes.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now