Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a Maine LLC?
Within the state of Maine, business owners can take advantage of several
tax incentives and credits
made available by the Maine Department of Economic & Community Development, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. For example, the
Small Enterprise Growth Fund
provides initial investments, typically between $150,000 and $350,000, in patient capital to small businesses that demonstrate a potential for high growth and public benefit.
For entrepreneurs looking to start a business in Maine, creating a Maine Limited Liability Company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way. With more simplified rules and regulations, an LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Maine corporations benefit from.
Benefits of Starting a Maine LLC:
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Create, manage, regulate, administer, and stay in compliance easily
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Low cost to file ($175)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Maine business taxes
, and much more. We also cover your registration needs, filing your Maine LLC, and how you'll correspond with the Maine Secretary of State (SOS) Bureau of Corporations, Elections, and Commissions (BCEC).
How to Form a Maine LLC Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Maine LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
To start the process, you’ll need a name for your LLC that’s unique and stands out, but one that’s not used by any other business or formed entity in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Maine Business Names
page.

Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Maine. To find out whether another company in the state is already using your preferred business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also carry out a name search on the Maine Secretary of State's
corporate name search
.
We Can Search the State of Maine Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence), or any other physical location, every Maine LLC must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the state of Maine, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Maine Secretary of State (SOS) Bureau of Corporations, Elections, and Commissions (BCEC). Every LLC in Maine is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business, or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Maine Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Maine and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your business.
In Maine, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Certificate of Formation and formally create your business. All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Maine Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Form Your LLC with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Certificate of Formation With the Maine Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Maine LLC, you’ll need to file your
Certificate of Formation
with the Maine SOS BCEC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Name of your LLC
The filing date
Whether or not the LLC is designated as a low profit LLC
Whether or not the LLC is designated as a professional LLC
Name and contact information of the Registered Agent
Name(s) and signature(s) of authorized person(s)
Your Certificate of Formation should be filed by mail or in person with the Maine Secretary of State BCEC. The
Maine LLC filing fee
is $175.
File by Mail
Secretary of State Division 
of Corporations, UCC and 
Commissions
101 State House Station
Augusta, ME
You only need to file your Certificate of Formation once, but must file an
annual report
every year. The periodic report can be filed online, and the filing fee for an
annual report
, set by the Maine Secretary of State BCEC, is $85. Bizee can remind you about this every year, or we can do it for you if you have us handle the paperwork.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Maine State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What Are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Maine?
State Fee
$178
State Filling Time
4 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
6 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
June 1st
Filing Fee
$85
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the Maine LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details key components of your business — how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members, and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Maine is one of the few states that require LLCs to have an
LLC Operating Agreement
. The operating agreement is an internal document, so there is no need to file it with the Maine Secretary of State, BCEC. Simply keep it with all your pertinent business documents.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Maine LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business operates in another state and you want to expand into Maine — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Maine Foreign LLC registration.
Helpful Resources from the State of Maine
Maine Secretary of State, Department of Corporations, Elections, and Commission
Maine Department of Labor
Maine Revenue Services
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
Maine Business Names
How to search the Maine business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving a Maine LLC name, and more.
2
Maine Registered Agents
How to appoint, change, and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Maine LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
Maine Business Tax Rules
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now