Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a Maryland LLC?
The state offers
several business incentives
, such as programs for women- and minority-owned businesses. In addition,
numerous tax credits
are available, including some aimed at specific verticals. Business owners can take advantage of these many programs to start and sustain their companies.
For many entrepreneurs, the fastest and easiest way to start a business is by creating a Maryland limited liability company (LLC), a business entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. You get the advantages and protections of a larger corporation with much simpler rules and regulations.
The state offers
several business incentives
, such as programs for women- and minority-owned businesses. In addition,
numerous tax credits
are available, including some aimed at specific verticals. Business owners can take advantage of these many programs to start and sustain their companies.
For many entrepreneurs, the fastest and easiest way to start a business is by creating a Maryland limited liability company (LLC), a business entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. You get the advantages and protections of a larger corporation with much simpler rules and regulations.
Benefits of starting a Maryland LLC:
Separating and limiting your personal liability from your business liability and debts
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation and administration
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
No franchise tax
Low cost to file ($100)
Learn more about the
advantages of an LLC
business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Maryland business taxes
and much more. We also cover the various ways you’ll interact with the Maryland State Department of Assessments and Taxation (also known as Maryland SDAT), filing your LLC and your registration needs.
How to Form a Maryland LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Maryland LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You'll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. There are also a few naming rules you’ll need to follow, which you can read about in detail on the
Maryland Business Names
page.
One Maryland rule, for example, is that certain restricted words require additional paperwork if you want to use them in your business name. This includes names associated with both institutions and certain qualified professions, such as insurance, surety, underwriters, banks, bankers, banking or any licensed professional services.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Maryland. To find out whether another company is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
Business Name Search
. You can also
carry out a name search
via the Maryland Business Express online portal.
We Can Search the Maryland Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Whether it’s an office building, a home (if you run your business from a residence) or any other physical location, every LLC in Maryland must have a street address. It can be located outside the state, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and has responsibility for filing reports with the Maryland SDAT is called a Registered Agent. In Maryland, this is usually called a Resident Agent. We use these terms interchangeably. Every Maryland LLC is required to have a Resident Agent.
This official position can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a Resident Agent service. If your
Maryland Registered Agent
is a person, they must reside and have a physical address in Maryland, and they must be present during business hours to receive documents on behalf of your company. In Maryland, you are required to designate your Resident Agent when you file your Articles of Organization.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service that is free for the first year and just $119 per year afterward. We also have a dashboard where you can log in and easily view any document your Registered Agent has received on your behalf.
Learn More About Maryland Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Maryland SDAT
Once you've gathered all the information for your Maryland LLC, you’ll need to file your Articles of Organization with the Maryland DAT
via their portal
, Maryland Business Express. This officially creates your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be perpetual or limited)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download Form Here
You can file your Articles of Organization
via the online system
provided by the Maryland SDAT, mail in a form to the Maryland SDAT or have Bizee do it on your behalf. The
Maryland LLC filing
fee is $100. Maryland also requires that you file a certified copy of your Articles of Organization with the state.
File by Mail
Maryland Department 
of Assessments and Taxation
301 W. Preston Street Baltimore, MD 21201
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you need to file an annual report. This is also something Bizee can remind you to do or do for you if you let us handle the paperwork.
Have Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Maryland State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form an LLC in Maryland?
State Fee
$197*
State Filling Time
5 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
10 Business Days
*includes online and expedited filing fees, as well as the costs for a certified copy of your Articles of Organization and expedited processing of that certified copy; all fees required by the state of Maryland
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
April 15th
Filing Fee
$300
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an
EIN
(Employer Identification Number) to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can obtain one directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Maryland LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A sort of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
outlines how the business is divided among members, how decisions will be made and what will happen should a member leave the company.
Some states require companies to create this document. You're not legally required to have a Maryland Operating Agreement, but it’s a good idea to have one to protect your business from any future changes and events.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Maryland LLC Types
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Maryland—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Maryland Foreign LLC registration.
Professional LLC
Some states allow certain occupations to form Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). These types of businesses typically have specialized requirements and licensing. A standard LLC may be formed to provide professional services, such as the practice of medicine or dentistry, if all the members are licensed.
The state doesn’t use the term "Maryland PLLC," but they do allow licensed professionals to form an LLC to provide professional services.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which is right for your business.
Helpful Resources from the State of Maryland
Business Express
Department of Labor
Office of the Comptroller
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Maryland LLC
How to search the Maryland SDAT business registry to find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, trade names, reserving a Maryland LLC name and more.
2
Maryland Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Resident Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Maryland Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you must meet for both state and federal rules. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Maryland Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you'll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes, such as sales and income taxes, and federal taxes, such as income and self-employment taxes.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now