Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a  Massachusetts  LLC?
The state offers a handful of business incentives and tax credits provided your LLC meets specific criteria. The state's
Economic Development Incentive Program Credit
(EDIPC) was created to attract new businesses and encourage job creation in distressed areas. It offers tax credits to businesses meeting those and other requirements.
For example, if your business is certified under the EDIPC as a job creation project, you may receive a tax credit of up to $5,000 per job created.
For most people wanting to start a business, creating a Massachusetts limited liability company (LLC) is the fastest and easiest way. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Massachusetts corporations benefit from, but with simplified rules and regulations.
Benefits of starting a Massachusetts LLC:
Limits and separates your personal liability from your business liability and debts
Simple tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Strong support for small local businesses
Numerous business tax credits
Learn more about the benefits of the LLC
business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, securing a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Massachusetts business taxes
and much more. We also cover everything you'll need to file your LLC, and the various ways you’ll interact with the Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth.
Note: Most states have a Secretary of State who administers business formation, among other duties. Because Massachusetts is
technically a commonwealth
and not a state, this government entity is called the Secretary of the Commonwealth. We may use both terms interchangeably throughout this guide in an effort to accommodate those who may be unaware of this difference and are seeking information about the "Massachusetts Secretary of State."
How to Form an LLC in Massachusetts Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Massachusetts LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You’ll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, our
Business Name Generator
can help you brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Massachusetts Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Massachusetts. To find out whether another company is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. Alternatively, you can
carry out a name search
on the Massachusetts Secretary of State (Commonwealth) website.
We Can Search the State of Massachusetts Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Every Massachusetts LLC must have a designated street address. That could be your home address (if you’re running the company from your residence), your company’s office building or any physical address of your preference. The address must be in the State of Massachusetts and cannot be a P.O. Box.
Instead, you may be able to use a virtual mailbox for your business address. Bizee can provide you with a
Massachusetts virtual mailbox
, where we'll receive your mail and scan it for your online review. This may be of particular interest if you run a home-based business and don't want your home address to become public record.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth is called a Registered Agent. Every LLC in Massachusetts is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Massachusetts Registered Agent
is a person, they must reside and have a physical street address in Massachusetts, and they must be present to receive important documents for your company during business hours. In Massachusetts, you designate your Registered Agent when you file your Certificate of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It's free for the first year and just $119 per year afterward. We have a dashboard where you can log in and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Massachusetts Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Certificate of Organization with the Massachusetts Secretary of State (Commonwealth)
Once you've gathered all the information for your LLC, you’ll need to file a formal document with the Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. Some states call this document "Articles of Organization." In Massachusetts, it's a “Certificate of Organization.” Filing this document officially creates your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be perpetual or limited)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download Certificate of Formation Form
Your Certificate of Organization
can be filed online
with the Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth, you can mail a form to the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth, or you can have Bizee do it on your behalf.
The Massachusetts LLC filing fee
is $50.
File by Mail
Secretary of the Commonwealth  Corporations Division
One Ashburton Place, Room 1717
Boston, MA 02108-1512
You only need to file your Certificate of Organization once, but every year after you must file an annual report. Bizee can remind you to do this or do it for you.
Have Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Massachusetts State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Massachusetts?
State Fee
$520*
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
1 Business Day
*includes $20 expedited service fee
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Anniversary date of formation or registration
Filing Fee
$520
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) From the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. This number is used when you file and pay taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can obtain one
directly from the IRS
, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Massachusetts LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place. You're not legally required to have a
Massachusetts LLC Operating Agreement
in place, but it’s a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Massachusetts LLC Types
Professional LLC
Some states, including Massachusetts, allow those who provide professional services to form
Professional Limited Liability Companies
(PLLCs). These entities typically have specialized requirements and licensing applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
To form a Massachusetts PLLC, you'll need to file a Professional Limited Liability Company Certificate of Organization form with the Secretary of the Commonwealth and pay a $500 filing fee.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one may be right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Massachusetts — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Massachusetts Foreign LLC
registration.
Helpful Resources from the State of Massachusetts
Corporations Division
Department of Labor Standards
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Massachusetts LLC
How to search the Massachusetts business registry to find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, DBAs, reserving a Massachusetts LLC name and more.
2
Massachusetts Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Massachusetts LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you must meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Massachusetts Business Tax
How to understand the various taxes you'll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now