Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create
a Michigan
LLC?
Michigan offers several
business and tax incentives
to foster entrepreneurial success. The state even provides incentives specifically for companies expanding or relocating to the state, such as the
Jobs Ready Michigan
program, making it a desirable location for Foreign LLCs.
For most people looking to start their own business, the fastest and easiest route is creating a Michigan limited liability company (LLC). An LLC is a type of business entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. You get the advantages and protections of larger Michigan corporations, but with much simpler rules and regulations.
Benefits of starting a Michigan LLC:
Separates and limits your personal and business liabilities and debts to protect your assets
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation and administration
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Low cost to file ($50)
Learn more about the
benefits of the LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Michigan business taxes
and much more. We also cover how you’ll interact with the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs and what you need to do to register and file your LLC.
How to Form a Michigan LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a Michigan LLC Search
You'll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to gather ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Michigan Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Michigan. To find out whether another company is using your chosen business name, use our tool to perform a
Michigan entity search
. Alternatively, you can carry out a name search on the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs website.
We Can Search the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address
Every Michigan LLC must have a designated street address. That could be your home address (if you’re running the company from your residence), your company’s office building or any physical location. The address can be outside the state, and it can be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Michigan Registered Agent
Every Michigan LLC is required to have a Registered Agent, known in Michigan as a “Resident Agent.” We use these terms interchangeably. This is an official position filled by someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Michigan Registered Agent
is a person, they must reside and have a physical street address in Michigan and must be present to receive important documents for your company during business hours. In Michigan, you must designate your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee's packages include a Registered Agent service that is free for the first year and just $119 per year afterward. We also have a dashboard where you can log in and easily view any document your Registered Agent has received on your behalf.
Learn More About Michigan Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Form Your LLC with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs
Once you've gathered all the information for your Michigan LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs to create your Articles of Organization and officially form your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Name of your LLC
Disclosure of the corporate purpose of the business
Registered agent and contact information
Whether it will be member-managed or manager-managed
Names and signatures of all organizers
Download Form CSCL/CD-700 Here
Your Articles of Organization
can be filed online
or mailed to the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs Corporations Division, or Bizee can do it on your behalf. The
Michigan LLC filing fee
is $50.
File by Mail
Michigan Department of Licensing and
Regulatory AffairsCorporations,
Securities & Commercial
Licensing Bureau –
Corporations Division P.O. Box
30054 Lansing,  MI 48909
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after you'll need to file an annual report, known in Michigan as an “Annual Statement”. Bizee can remind you to do this or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Michigan State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the fees and requirements to form a business in Michigan?
State Fee
$50
State Filling Time
4 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annualy
Due Date
February 15th
Note
LLCs registered after September 30th of the preceding year are exempt from filing the report in the subsequent year
Filing Fee
$25
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) From the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You'll use it when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can get an EIN
through Bizee and let us do the paperwork for you.
You can also obtain one
one directly from the IRS, or we can include the EIN application as part of the Michigan LLC formation process if you create your business through us.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of “instruction manual” that outlines how you'll run your business, a Michigan LLC Operating Agreement will detail how decisions are made, how the business is divided amongst members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have an
LLC Operating Agreement
in place. It isn’t legally required in Michigan, but it’s a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Michigan LLC Types
Professional LLC
Some states, including Michigan, allow people in certain occupations to form Professional LLCs. This type of LLC will typically have specialized requirements and licensing. A standard LLC may be formed to provide professional services, such as the practice of medicine or dentistry, if all the members are licensed.
Learn more about PLLC vs. LLC and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business already operates in another state and you want to expand into Michigan — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Michigan Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Michigan
Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs
Bureau of Employment Relations
Department of Treasury
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Michigan LLC
How to search the business registry of the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs to find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving an LLC name and more.
2
Michigan Registered Agent
How to appoint, change and search for a Registered Agent — and the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Michigan LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you’ll need to meet for both federal and Michigan rules. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Michigan Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you'll need to pay to the federal and state governments. Includes details of federal taxes, such as income and self-employment, and state taxes, such as sales and income.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now