Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Start a Minnesota LLC?
Recognizing the importance of entrepreneurship, Minnesota offers business and
tax incentives
, provided your LLC meets certain criteria.
For example, the
Border-Cities Enterprise Zone Program
provides several types of incentives to "qualifying businesses that are the source of investment, development, and job creation or retention" in certain cities.
For most people who want to start a business, creating a Minnesota limited liability company (LLC) is the easiest and fastest way. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses because it offers the advantages and protections that larger corporations benefit from, but with simpler rules and regulations.
If an LLC isn't the right entity for the type of business you're starting, you may want to consider forming a
Minnesota Corporation
instead.
Benefits of Starting a Minnesota LLC:
Separates and limits your personal liability from your business liability and debts
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Simple filing, management, compliance, regulation, and administration
Low cost to file ($155)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.

In this guide, you’ll see information on naming your LLC, finding a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay, business taxes, and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC, and how you'll interact with the Minnesota Secretary of State.
Starting a Business in Minnesota Checklist
To help you along the way, use our
starting a business checklist
to keep track of everything you need to do to get your business up and running.
How to Form a Minnesota LLC Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a State Business Search
You’ll need an original and memorable name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using our
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Minnesota Business Names
page.
Once you’ve decided on a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Minnesota. To find out whether another company in the state is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also
carry out a name search
on the Minnesota Secretary of State website.
We Can Search the Minnesota Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for Your MN LLC
Whether it’s a home (if the company is run from a residence), a building, or any other physical location, every Minnesota LLC must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and has responsibility for filing reports with the Minnesota Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent.
Every Minnesota LLC is required to have a Registered Agent.You can fill this position, assign another manager to your business, or use a Registered Agent service. If your
Minnesota Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Minnesota and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company.
You'll appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Minnesota Articles of Organization.
All of Bizee’s business formation packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also access a digital dashboard to view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Minnesota Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Minnesota Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the State Corporation Commission to create your Articles of Organization in Minnesota. This will officially create your business.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be perpetual or limited)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download the Form Here
You can file your Minnesota Articles of Organization online via the state's
online business portal
. You can also mail the form to the Office of the Secretary of State, or have Bizee do it on your behalf. The
Minnesota LLC filing fee
is $155 for an expedited online or in-person filing, and $135 to file by mail.
File by Mail
Minnesota Secretary of State - Business Services
Retirement Systems of Minnesota
Building 60 Empire Drive, Suite 100
St Paul, MN 55103
You only need to file your Articles of Organization in Minnesota once, but every year after, you'll also need to file an annual report. Bizee can remind you about this every year, or we can do it for you if you have us handle the paperwork.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Minnesota State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Minnesota LLC?
State Fee
$155
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
1 Business Day
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
December 31st
Filing Fee
$0
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Minnesota LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A sort of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
outlines how the business is divided among members, how decisions will be made, and what will happen should a member leave the company.
Some states require companies to create this document. You're not legally required to have a Minnesota Operating Agreement, but it’s a good idea to have one to protect your business from any future changes and events.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Minnesota LLC Types
Professional LLC
Some states, including Minnesota, allow certain types of businesses to form Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). A Minnesota PLLC will typically require members to be licensed, and may impose other requirements as well.
Minnesota PLLCs are governed by the
Minnesota Professional Firms Act
. It allows doctors, nurses, chiropractors, social workers, dentists, engineers, and other professionals to form PLLCs.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business operates in another state and you want to expand into Minnesota — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Minnesota Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources From the State of Minnesota
Secretary of State
Department of Deployment and Economic Development
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your Minnesota LLC
How to search the state business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving a Minnesota LLC name, and more.
2
Minnesota Registered Agents
How to appoint, change, and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the duties they fulfill and the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Minnesota LLC Fees and Requirements
Details the various fees you’ll need to pay, and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes information about Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, public information reports, and more.
4
Minnesota Business Taxes
Covers the various taxes you’ll have to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details about state taxes such as sales and franchise, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now