Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a Missouri LLC?
Within the State of Missouri, business owners can take advantage of various
incentives and financing
, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. For example, Missouri offers a
Missouri Works program
to provide significant benefits to new and existing companies that are creating and retaining jobs in Missouri.
For entrepreneurs wanting to start a business in Missouri, creating a Missouri limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way. With more simplified rules and regulations, an LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Missouri corporations benefit from.
Benefits of starting a Missouri LLC:
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Create, manage, regulate, administer and stay in compliance easily
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Low cost to file ($50 plus a $2 online fee)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Missouri business taxes
and much more. We also cover your registration needs, filing your Missouri LLC and how you'll correspond with the Missouri Secretary of State.
How to Form an LLC in Missouri Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Missouri LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
To start the process, you’ll need a name for your LLC that’s distinctive and stands out, but one that’s not used by any other business or corporation in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Missouri Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Missouri. To find out whether another company in the state is already using your desired business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also carry out an entity name search on the Missouri Secretary of State
online business entity search
.
We Can Search the State of Missouri Business Registry for You
Use Bizee’s Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Address for your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every Missouri LLC must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the State of Missouri, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Missouri Secretary of State. Every LLC in Missouri is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Missouri Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Missouri and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your business. In Missouri, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your Missouri LLC.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Missouri Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Certificate of Formation with the Missouri Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Missouri LLC, you’ll need to file your
Articles of Organization
with the Missouri Secretary of State (SOS).
The certificate must include:
Name of your LLC
Purpose of the business entity
Registered Agent and contact information
Whether the LLC is member-managed or manager-managed
Duration of the business entity
Names, addresses and signatures of all organizers
Principal office address (both street and mailing)
Your Articles of Organization can be filed online by using an
online business system
provided by the Missouri Secretary of State, filed in person or filed by mailing a printed form to the SOS. The
Missouri LLC filing fee
is $105 if you choose to submit a paper version or $50 if you complete the application online.
File by Mail
Secretary of State
Corporations Division
P.O. Box 778
Jefferson City, MO 65102
File in Person
Secretary of State
Corporations Division
600 W. Main St., Rm. 322
Jefferson City, MO 65102
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but all corporations must log in to Missouri's
online business portal
and file an annual registration report every year. The fee for this is $20. The Missouri SOS also allows businesses to elect to submit a biennial registration report every other year instead, and the fee for this is $40. Bizee can either remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Missouri State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Missouri?
State Fee
$52*
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
1 Business Day
*includes a $2 online filing fee
Annual Report
Annual Report is not required for LLCs at this time.
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the Missouri LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details key components of your business — how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Although some states require that a company have this document in place, Missouri does not mandate that you are required to have an
LLC Operating Agreement
. At Bizee, we think it’s still a good idea to have one regardless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Missouri LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from regular LLCs in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Missouri — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Missouri Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Missouri
Missouri Secretary of State
Missouri Department of Revenue
Missouri Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Missouri LLC
How to search the Missouri business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving a Missouri LLC name and more.
2
Missouri Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Missouri LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Missouri Business Tax Rules
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes, such as sales and income, and federal taxes, such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now