Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Start a Montana LLC?
Within the state of Montana, business owners can take advantage of several
tax incentives and credits
made available by the Montana Department of Revenue, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. For example, an
Empowerment Zone Credit
is offered to businesses in empowerment zones.This enables businesses to claim tax credits of up to $3,000 for each qualified employee that meets the specified criteria.
For entrepreneurs looking to start a business in Montana, creating a Montana limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way. With more simplified rules and regulations, an LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Montana corporations benefit from.
Within the state of Montana, business owners can take advantage of several
tax incentives and credits
made available by the Montana Department of Revenue, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. For example, an
Empowerment Zone Credit
is offered to businesses in empowerment zones.This enables businesses to claim tax credits of up to $3,000 for each qualified employee that meets the specified criteria.
For entrepreneurs looking to start a business in Montana, creating a Montana limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way. With more simplified rules and regulations, an LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Montana corporations benefit from.
Benefits of Starting a Montana LLC:
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Create, manage, regulate, administer and stay in compliance easily
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Low cost to file ($35)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Montana business taxes
and much more. We also cover your registration needs, filing your Montana LLC and how you'll correspond with the Montana Secretary of State (SOS).
How to Form a Montana LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Montana LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
To start the process, you’ll need a name for your LLC that’s unique and stands out, but one that’s not used by any other business or formed entity in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Montana Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Montana. To find out whether another company in the state is already using your preferred business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also carry out a name search on the Montana Secretary of State's
business name search
.
We Can Search the State of Montana Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every Montana LLC must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the state of Montana, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Montana Secretary of State (SOS). Every LLC in Montana is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Montana Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Montana and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your business. In Montana, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Montana Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Montana Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Montana LLC, you’ll need to file your
Articles of Organization
with the Montana SOS using their
online business portal
.
The certificate must include:
Name of your LLC
Filing date
Whether the LLC is will be member-managed or manager-managed
Whether or not the LLC is designated as a professional LLC
Name and contact information of the Registered Agent
Name(s) and signature(s) of authorized person(s)
Your Articles of Organization should be filed online with Montana Secretary of State business portal. The
Montana LLC filing fee
is $70. You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but you must file an annual report every year by searching for your business name in the Montana SOS
online database
, and completing the necessary steps. The periodic report can be filed online, and the filing fee for an annual report, set by the Montana Secretary of State is $20. Bizee can either remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Montana State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Montana?
State Fee
$35
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Day
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
April 15
Filing Fee
$20
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the Montana LLC formation process.
Step 6: Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreemen
t details key components of your business - how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Although some states require businesses to have this document in place, you're not legally required to have a
Montana LLC Operating Agreement
. We do however think that it's a good idea to have one regardless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Montana LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Montana—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign
LLC.Learn more about
Montana Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Montana
Montana Secretary of State, Business Services
Montana Department of Labor and Industry
Montana Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
1
Montana Business Names
How to search the Montana business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving a Montana LLC name and more.
2
Montana Registered Agent Service
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Montana LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Montana Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now