Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create
a Nebraska 
LLC?
One of the more business-friendly states, Nebraska offers several business and tax incentives, provided your LLC meets certain criteria.
For example, the state's
imagine program
provides tax credits for wages, sales and use taxes, investment and personal property tax.
For most people who want to start a business, creating a Nebraska limited liability company (LLC) is the easiest and fastest way. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses because it offers the advantages and protections that larger corporations benefit from, but with simpler rules and regulations.
If an LLC isn't the right entity for the type of business you're starting, you may want to consider forming a
Nebraska Corporation
instead.
Benefits of starting a Nebraska LLC:
Protects your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation and administration
Low LLC filing fee ($109)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay, business taxes and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC and how you'll interact with the Nebraska Secretary of State.
Starting a Business in Nebraska Checklist
To help you along the way, use our
Starting a Business checklist
to keep track of everything you need to do to get your business up and running.
How to Form a Nebraska LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a State Business Search
You’ll need an original and distinctive name for your LLC that’s unique from any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using our
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Nebraska Business Names
page.
Once you’ve decided on a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Nebraska. To find out whether another company in the state is using your desired business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also
carry out a name search
on the Nebraska Secretary of State website.
We Can Search the Nebraska Company Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Every Nebraska LLC must have a designated street address, whether it’s an office building, a home (if you run the company from your residence) or any other physical location. It can be outside the state, but it can’t be a P.O. box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and has responsibility for filing reports with the Nebraska Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent. Every LLC in Nebraska is required to have a Registered Agent.
You can fill this position, assign another manager in your business or use a Registered Agent service. If your
Nebraska Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Nebraska and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company.
You'll appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Certificate of Organization in Nebraska to create your business.
All of Bizee’s business formation packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also access a digital dashboard to view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Nebraska Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Nebraska Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the Secretary of State to create your Certificate of Organization in Nebraska. This will officially create your business.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be perpetual or limited)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download Form Here
You can file your Certificate of Organization online via the state's
eDelivery system
. You can also mail the form to the Office of the Secretary of State or Bizee can file it on your behalf. The
Nebraska LLC filing fee
is $100, plus a $5 per page filing fee.
File by Mail
Robert B. Evnen, Secretary of State
P.O. Box 94608L
incoln, NE 68509
You only need to file your Certificate of Organization in Nebraska once, but every other year after, you'll also need to file a biennial report. Bizee can remind you about this every other year, or we can do it for you if you have us handle the paperwork.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Nebraska State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the fees and requirements to form a Nebraska LLC?
State Fee
$109*
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
3 Business Days
*includes online filing fee
Annual Report
Frequency
Biennially
Due Date
April 1st of each odd-numbered year.
Filing Fee
$30
Publication Requirement
Domestic Nebraska limited liability companies must publish a notice of organization, amendment, merger or conversion for three successive weeks in some legal newspaper of general circulation, near the designated office of the limited liability company. The notice of organization shall show the name of the limited liability company, the street address of the designated office and the general nature of the business to be transacted.
(We do not assist in the filing of the Publication Requirement)
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Nebraska LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that details how your business will be run, an
LLC Operating Agreement
outlines how the business is divided among members, how decisions will be made and what will happen should a member leave the company.

Some states require companies to create this document. You're not legally required to have a Nebraska Operating Agreement, but it’s a good idea to have one to protect your business from any future changes and events.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Nebraska LLC Types
Series LLC
The state offers the option to set up a Nebraska Series LLC. This is a specialized business entity designed to allow you to manage multiple LLCs under one master LLC. It's a useful option if you want to avoid the time and expense of setting up a separate LLC for every business you run.
Decide Whether a Series LLC Is Right for Your New Business
What Is a Series LLC in Nebraska and Why Might You Need One?
Foreign LLC
If your business operates in another state and you want to expand into Nebraska — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.

Learn more about
Nebraska Foreign LLC registration
.
Professional LLC
Some states, including Nebraska, allow certain types of businesses to form Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). A Nebraska PLLC will typically require members to be licensed and may impose
other requirements
as well.
Under
Nebraska law
, professional services are provided by dentists, physicians, veterinarians, attorneys, real estate salespeople, etc.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Helpful Resources From the State of Nebraska
Secretary of State
Department of Labor
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your Nebraska LLC
How to search the state business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving a business name and more.
2
Nebraska Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the duties they fulfill and the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Nebraska LLC Fees and Requirements
Details the various fees you’ll need to pay, and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes information about Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, public information reports and more.
4
Nebraska Business Taxes
Covers the various taxes you’ll have to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details about state taxes such as sales and franchise, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now