Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Start a Nevada LLC?
The State of Nevada offers several
business incentives and grants
and tax credits, provided your LLC meets certain criteria. For example, the
New Markets Tax Credit
(NMTC) program offers funding to businesses located in economically distressed communities. In addition to the Nevada NMTC,
Las Vegas has its own
NMTC program for businesses located in a low-income community in the city.
For most people looking to start a business, the fastest and easiest way is to create a Nevada limited liability corporation (LLC), a type of business entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. It gives you the advantages and protections that larger corporations benefit from, but with simplified rules and regulations.
The State of Nevada offers several
business incentives and grants
and tax credits, provided your LLC meets certain criteria. For example, the
New Markets Tax Credit
(NMTC) program offers funding to businesses located in economically distressed communities. In addition to the Nevada NMTC,
Las Vegas has its own
NMTC program for businesses located in a low-income community in the city.
For most people looking to start a business, the fastest and easiest way is to create a Nevada limited liability corporation (LLC), a type of business entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. It gives you the advantages and protections that larger corporations benefit from, but with simplified rules and regulations.
Benefits of Creating a Nevada LLC:
Protects your personal assets from business debts and liability
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation, and administration
No state income tax
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Nevada business taxes
and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC and how you'll interact with the Nevada Secretary of State (SOS).
How to Form an LLC in Nevada Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Nevada LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You’ll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state, whether in
Las Vegas
or Reno. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using
Bizee’s Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Nevada Business Names page
.
For example, Nevada
restricts the use of certain words
, such as "engineer," "engineered" or "professional engineer,” in business names. If you want your limited liability company name to include any of those words, you'll first need approval from the Nevada State Board of Engineers.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Nevada. To find out whether another company is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also
carry out a name search
on Nevada SilverFlume, the state's online business portal.
We Can Search Nevada SilverFlume for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for Your LLC
Whether it’s an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every LLC in Nevada must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, and it can be a P.O. Box.
For even more convenience, you could use a virtual mailbox for your business address. Bizee can provide you with a
Nevada virtual mailbox
, where we'll receive your mail and scan it for you to access online. This can be especially important if you run a home-based business to keep your home address from being published as part of your business public record.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is a person or entity who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Nevada Secretary of State. Every LLC in Nevada is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your Registered Agent is a person, they must reside and have a physical street address in Nevada and they must be present to receive important documents for your company during business hours. In Nevada, you designate your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization to formally create your business.
At Bizee, all of our packages include a
Nevada Registered Agent
service that's free for the first year and just $119 per year afterward. It provides a dashboard where you can log in and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Nevada Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Nevada Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Nevada LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
to create your Articles of Organization with the Nevada Secretary of State. This document officially creates your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Information about your Registered Agent
Whether the entity is a series or restricted LLC
Duration (can be limited; it's
perpetual by default
)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers and members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download Articles of Organization Form Here
Your Nevada Articles of Organization
can be filed online
with Nevada SilverFlume. You can also mail the form to the Nevada Secretary of State or have Bizee do it on your behalf. The
Nevada LLC filing fee
is $75.
Your initial annual report (which the state refers to as the "initial list" of members or managers) and
Nevada business license
are also filed with your Articles of Organization for additional fees of $150 and $200, respectively.
File by Mail
Secretary of State
New Filings Division
202 North Carson Street
Carson City, NV 89701
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you must file an annual report for your LLC. This is also something Bizee can remind you to do or do for you if you allow us to handle the paperwork.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Nevada State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Nevada?
State Fee
$436*
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Days
*includes Annual Report and Business License fees
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Due by the last day of the anniversary month of filing.
Filing Fee
$160
Important
The Initial Annual Report and Business Licence are filed with the articles of organization. As such, the $350 fee is added to the $75 filing fee and used to satisfy payment for both the Initial Annual Report and Business License.
Note:
You will be responsible for filing Annual Report and Business License in subsequent years.
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Nevada LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Many states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place. It isn’t legally required in Nevada, but it’s a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Nevada LLC Types
Series LLC
If you want to manage multiple LLCs under one umbrella LLC, you’ll need to create a Series LLC. To do so, you'll simply check the applicable box on the Nevada Articles of Organization form.
Decide Whether a Nevada Series LLC Is Right for Your New Business
Professional LLC
The Nevada Limited Liability Company Act is
Chapter 86
of the Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS). This law governs how LLCs are established and managed. Another portion of the NRS — Chapter 89 — applies to Professional LLCs.
Per this NRS chapter, a Nevada Professional LLC is mostly the same as a standard LLC, except that its purpose is
to render professional services
. Examples of these services include, but are not limited to, architecture, medicine and the practice of law.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Nevada—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Nevada Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Nevada
Secretary of State
Department of Industrial Relations
Department of Taxation
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Nevada LLC
How to search the Secretary of State's business registry to find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving an LLC name and more.
2
Nevada Registered Agents
How to appoint, change, and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Nevada LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you’ll need to meet for both state and federal rules. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
Nevada Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you'll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales tax and income tax, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
Incorporate Now
Launch Your Business With Bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now