Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a New Hampshire LLC?
The state of New Hampshire offers a variety of
business incentives
made available by the New Hampshire Division of Economic Development, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. For example, the
New Hampshire Job Training Fund
provides qualifying businesses with a 50/50 cash match grant of $750 to $100,000 for customized training of a company’s employees.
For entrepreneurs wanting to start a business in New Hampshire, creating a New Hampshire limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way. With more simplified rules and regulations, an LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger New Hampshire corporations benefit from.
Benefits of Starting a New Hampshire LLC:
Create, manage, regulate, administer, and stay in compliance easily
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Low filing fee ($100)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
New Hampshire business taxes
, and much more. We also cover your registration needs, filing your New Hampshire LLC, and how you'll correspond with the New Hampshire Secretary of State (SOS).
How to Form a New Hampshire LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a New Hampshire LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
To start the process, you’ll need a name for your LLC that’s unique and stands out, but you'll want to make sure that it's not being used by any other business or formed entity in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
New Hampshire Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in New Hampshire. To find out whether another corporation or company in the state is already using your preferred business name, use our tool to do a
business name search.
You can also carry out a name search within the New Hampshire Secretary of State's website via their
business name lookup
.
We Can Search the State of New Hampshire Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence), or any other physical location, every New Hampshire LLC must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the state of New Hampshire, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the New Hampshire Secretary of State (SOS). Every LLC in New Hampshire is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business, or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
New Hampshire Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in New Hampshire and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your business. In New Hampshire, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Certificate of Formation and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. We also provide you with access to our dashboard where you can easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About New Hampshire Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Certificate of Formation with the New Hampshire Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your New Hampshire LLC, you’ll need to file your
Certificate of Formation
with the New Hampshire Secretary of State.
The certificate must include:
Name of your LLC
Principal address of the business
The primary purpose of the business
Name, address, and contact information of the Registered Agent
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Whether the LLC will be member-managed or manager-managed
Name(s) and signature(s) of authorized person(s)
Download Certificate of Organization Form Here
Your Certificate of Formation can be filed online, by mail, or in person with the New Hampshire Secretary of State. The
New Hampshire LLC filing fee
is $100, with an additional cost of $2 if you choose to file electronically.
File by Mail
Corporation Division
NH Dept. of State
107 N Main St, Rm 204
Concord, NH 03301-4989
File in Person
State House Annex
3rd Floor, Rm 317
25 Capitol St, Concord, NH
You only need to file your Certificate of Formation once, however, all LLCs in New Hampshire must file an annual report via
the online business service
once a year to remain compliant with the Secretary of State. The filing fee set by the NH Secretary of State is $100.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the New Hampshire State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What Are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in New Hampshire?
State Fee
$102*
State Filling Time
4 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
13 Business Days
*includes online processing fees
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
April 1st
Filing Fee
$102*
*includes online processing fees
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the New Hampshire LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
An operating agreement is a kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business. An
LLC Operating Agreement
will outline key components of your business — how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members, and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Although some states require businesses to have this document in place, you're not legally required to have an
LLC Operating Agreement
in place to conduct business in New Hampshire. We do recommend having one for your business nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements Here
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other New Hampshire LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to New Hampshire — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
New Hampshire Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of New Hampshire
New Hampshire Secretary of State
New Hampshire Department of Labor
New Hampshire Department of Revenue Administration
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your New Hampshire LLC
How to search the New Hampshire business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving a New Hampshire LLC name and, more.
2
New Hampshire Registered Agents
How to appoint, change, and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
New Hampshire LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
New Hampshire Business Tax Rules
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now