Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Start a New Jersey LLC?
The state offers a wide range of
business assistance programs
and tax credits to LLCs and other business entities that meet certain requirements. For example, the Business Retention and Relocation Assistance Act offers tax credits to businesses that
create and preserve New Jersey jobs
that are in danger of being sent out of state.
For most people who want to start a business, creating a New Jersey limited liability company (LLC) is the easiest, fastest way. An ideal business entity for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses, an LLC grants you the advantages and protections of larger corporations but with much simpler rules and regulations.
The state offers a wide range of
business assistance programs
and tax credits to LLCs and other business entities that meet certain requirements. For example, the Business Retention and Relocation Assistance Act offers tax credits to businesses that
create and preserve New Jersey jobs
that are in danger of being sent out of state.
For most people who want to start a business, creating a New Jersey limited liability company (LLC) is the easiest, fastest way. An ideal business entity for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses, an LLC grants you the advantages and protections of larger corporations but with much simpler rules and regulations.
Benefits of Starting a New Jersey LLC:
Simple filing, management, compliance, regulation and administration
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Simple filing, management, compliance, regulation and administration
Low formation cost of just $125
Learn more about the
benefits of the LLC business structure
.
This guide will cover the basics of NJ LLC formation. It covers naming your business, getting a Registered Agent, the fees and requirements you’ll need to pay and meet,
NJ state tax
details and much more. We’ll also go over what you need to file your LLC and how you'll work with the New Jersey Division of Revenue and Enterprise Services, often simply referred to as the NJ Division of Revenue or DORES.
Note: In most states, business creation and management is administered by the Secretary of State. However, NJ business services are handled by DORES, which falls under the NJ Department of Treasury, but the NJ Secretary of State does provide some resources and support through its
Business Action Center
.
How to Form a New Jersey LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a New Jersey LLC Search
You'll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that no other business in the state is using. If you’re having difficulty coming up with a name, try using our
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on our
New Jersey Business Names
page.
Once you’ve selected a name, you must ensure it’s available in New Jersey. To find out whether another company is using your desired name, use our tool to do a
New Jersey entity search
. Alternatively, you can
perform a name search
on the DORES website.
We Can Search the New Jersey Business Registry for You
See If Your Preferred Name Is Available
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for Your LLC
Every New Jersey LLC must have a designated street address, whether it's your home address (if you’re running the company from your residence), an office building or any other physical location. The address can be outside the state, but cannot be a P.O. Box.
You may also be able to use a virtual mailbox for your business address. Bizee can provide you with a
New Jersey virtual mailbox
where we'll receive your mail, and scan it for your online review. This can be especially convenient if you run a home-based business and don't want your home address published as part of your business public record.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the NJ Division of Revenue is called a Registered Agent. Every New Jersey LLC is required to have one.
You can fill this position or select another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
New Jersey Registered Agent
is a person, they must be at least 18 years old, and reside and have a physical address in New Jersey. They must also be available during business hours to receive documents on behalf of your company. In New Jersey, you select a Registered Agent when you file your Business Registration Application to create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service that's free for the first year and just $119 per year thereafter. You'll have access to a dashboard where you can log in and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About New Jersey Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File a Certificate of Formation with the NJ Division of Revenue
Once you have all the information for your LLC, you’ll need to file a New Jersey Certificate of Formation — also called a Public Records Filing for New Business Entity in New Jersey — with DORES, which will officially create your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be permanent)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Note:
The NJ Division of Revenue requests that your Certificate of Formation be
filed online
, but you can also print the form and mail it in, if you prefer. We highly recommend filing your LLC paperwork online or through Bizee for faster, more accurate service.
Download Form Public Records Filing
File by Mail
New Jersey Department of the Treasury Division of Revenue &
Enterprise Services/Corp. Filing  Unit
PO Box 308
Trenton, NJ 08646-0308
You only need to file your NJ Certificate of Formation once, but every year after, you'll need to file an annual report. Bizee can remind you to do this, or do it for you if we handle your formation paperwork.
Let Bizee Handle All the Formation Paperwork for You for $0 + the New Jersey State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in New Jersey?
State Fee
$130
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
1 Business Day
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Last day of anniversary month of organization.
Filing Fee
$78*
*All new business entities in New Jersey are required to file Form NJ-REG to be registered for tax and employer purposes. Filing Form NJ-REG ensures that the business is registered under the correct tax identification number and that it will receive the proper returns and notices. The NJ-REG, must be filed within 60 days of filing the new business entity, there is no fee for this filing.
Step 5: File Form NJ-REG to Register Your Business for Tax and Employer Purposes
Within 60 days of filing your Certificate of Formation/Public Records Filing to officially form your new business entity, you’ll also need to complete Form NJ-REG to register your business with the New Jersey Division of Revenue. This is free and ensures that your business is registered under the correct tax identification number and that you'll receive the proper returns and notices. You can
file your Form NJ-REG online here
.
Step 6: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can obtain one directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the NJ LLC formation process.
Step 7: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that details how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
outlines how business decisions will be made, how the business is set up among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Many states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place — it isn’t legally required in New Jersey, but it’s a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other New Jersey LLC Types
Professional LLC
Some states allow certain occupations to form Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). The state doesn’t use the term "New Jersey PLLC," but it will allow an LLC that provides professional services to form a Professional Association.
State Senate Bill 2137
, a revision to the New Jersey Professional Service Corporation Act, defines professional services as:
"… the personal services rendered by certified public accountants, architects, optometrists, ophthalmic dispensers and technicians, professional engineers, land surveyors, land planners, chiropractors, physical therapists, registered professional nurses, psychologists, dentists, osteopaths, physicians and surgeons, doctors of medicine, doctors of dentistry, podiatrists, veterinarians and, subject to the Rules of the Supreme Court, attorneys-at-law …"
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to New Jersey — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
New Jersey Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of New Jersey
Division of Revenue and Enterprise Services
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
Division of Taxation
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
New Jersey Business Names
How to search the state business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving a New Jersey LLC name and more.
2
New Jersey Registered Agent Service
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also covers their duties and the rules they’re required to follow.
3
New Jersey LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you’ll need to meet for both state and federal rules. Covers Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
New Jersey Business Taxes
Explains the taxes you'll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Covers state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
Incorporate Now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now