Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Form a New York State LLC?
While having a business in New York City offers a certain amount of prestige, the entire state welcomes small businesses with
numerous incentives and tax credits
.
One example is the state's
Start-Up NY program
, which:
"... provides tax benefits to approved businesses that locate in vacant space or land of approved New York State public and private colleges and universities, approved strategic state assets, and New York State incubators affiliated with private universities or colleges that are designated as tax-free NY areas."
New York also offers incentive programs specifically
designed for small businesses
, making them ideal for LLCs. If you're not sure what type of incentive or credit is right for your business, the state offers an
incentive wizard
, which you can access via NYS Business Express, the state's online business portal.
If you want to start a small- to medium-sized business or startup, the fastest and easiest way to do so is to create a New York
limited liability company (LLC)
. An LLC offers some of the same protections and advantages larger corporations enjoy, while also requiring adherence to simpler rules and laws.
If an LLC isn't the right entity for the type of business you're starting, you may want to consider forming a
New York Corporation instead
.
Benefits of Starting a New York LLC:
Separates and limits your personal liability from your business liability and debts
Simple filing, management, compliance, regulation. and administration
Exemption from the New York Corporate Income Tax (conditions apply)
New York Corporate Income Tax
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Low filing fee of
just $205
Learn more about the
benefits of the LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
New York business tax
requirements and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register your LLC and how you'll interact with the NYS Department of State.
Starting a Business in New York Checklist
To help you along the way, use our
Starting a Business checklist
to keep track of everything you need to do to get your business up and running.
How to Form an LLC in New York Yourself in 7 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a New York Business Search
You'll need a distinctive and original name for your New York LLC that’s not being used by any other business in the state. Our
Business Name Generator
can help you brainstorm names if you're having trouble coming up with a good one. First, read up on the state's naming rules in the
New York Business Names
section of this guide.
Once you've chosen a name, make sure it's available in the state by using our free tool to do a
New York entity search
. You can also
perform a search
on the NYS Department of State website.
We Can Search the New York Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Every LLC in New York must have a designated street address. This could be your company’s office building, your home address (if you’re running the company from your residence) or any physical address of your preference. The address can be outside the state of New York, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
You may also be able to use a virtual mailbox for your business address. Bizee can provide you with a
New York virtual mailbox
, where we'll receive your mail and scan it for your online review. This can be especially desirable if you run a home-based business and don't want your home address published as part of your business’s public record.
Step 3: Assign a New York Registered Agent
Someone who receives official correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the New York Secretary of State is known as a Registered Agent. If you have an LLC, New York requires you to have a Registered Agent. You'll appoint your Registered Agent when you file the Articles of Organization to create your business.
You can fill this position, assign another manager in your business or use a Registered Agent service. If your
New York Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in New York and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company.
All of Bizee’s business formation packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You'll also have access to a digital dashboard to view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About New York Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Form Your LLC with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the NYS Division of Corporations
Once you've gathered all the information for your LLC, you’ll need to file your New York LLC Articles of Organization with the NYS Division of Corporations. This document formally creates your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your Business Name and Address
Details of Your Registered Agent
The county where your business is located
Name and address of the organizer
Download Articles of Incorporation Form
Your Articles of Organization can be mailed,
filed online
via NYS Business Express or Bizee can do it on your behalf for free. The state charges a $200 filing fee for NYS LLC formation.
File by Mail
Department of State Division 
of Corporations
State Records and Uniform 
Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany, NY 12231-0001
You only need to file your Articles of Organization with New York once, but you'll need to file a biennial (every two years) report. This is also something Bizee can remind you to do or do for you if you have us handle the paperwork.
You may also need to pay the
New York Corporate Tax
(if applicable to your business).
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What Are the Fees and Requirements to Form a New York State LLC?
State Fee
$205*
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
1 Business Day
*includes $5 paper copy fee
Annual Report
Frequency
Biennially
Due Date
During the anniversary month of the organization.
Filing Fee
$9
Important
Section 206 of the New York State Limited Liability Company Law requires that within 120 days after the effectiveness of the initial articles of organization, a limited liability company (LLC) must publish in two newspapers a copy of the articles of organization or a notice related to the formation of the LLC. The newspapers must be designated by the county clerk of the county in which the office of the LLC is located, as stated in the articles of organization. After publication, the printer or publisher of each newspaper will provide you with an affidavit of publication. A Certificate of Publication, with the affidavits of publication of the newspapers attached, must be submitted to the New York Department of State, Division of Corporations, One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue, Albany, NY 12231. The fee for filing the Certificate of Publication is $50.  (We do not assist in the filing of the Publication Requirement)
Step 5: Complete the New York Publication Requirement
Section 206
of the New York Limited Liability Company Act mandates that new LLCs must publish a Notice of LLC Formation. The notice must be published:
in two newspapers — a daily and a weekly;
within 120 days of formation;
in newspapers
circulated in the county
where the LLC’s principal office will be located; and
once a day and once a week (in the respective newspapers) for six consecutive weeks.
You must include the following information in your notice:
the name of your LLC;
the date the LLC was formed (you can get this from your Articles of Organization);
the county where your main office is located;
your LLC's street address;
a statement that the Secretary of State has been designated as an agent of the LLC upon whom process against it may be served;
the address where the NY Secretary of State may forward any process against the LLC;
the name and address of your Registered Agent;
a statement that the Registered Agent is to be the agent of the LLC upon whom process against it may be served;
the purpose of the LLC, which can be a statement such as “the purpose of the LLC is to engage in any lawful act or activity;” and
the date the LLC will dissolve. If you plan to run your LLC indefinitely, you can use the word “perpetual” here.
Contact the County Clerk’s office in the county where your business is located to ensure you choose newspapers that fulfill this requirement.
How to Meet New York LLC Publication Requirements
Once you’ve met the New York publication requirement, the newspapers will send you an Affidavit of Publication. You'll file that with a
form called
Certificate of Publication. NY charges a $50 filing fee to complete the process and proclaim your requirement fulfilled.
Download New York's Articles of Organization Form Here
Where to File Your Certificate  of Publication in NY
Department of State Division  of Corporations
State Records and Uniform
Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.Albany,  NY 12231-0001
Important
Bizee can file your LLC formation paperwork, but we do not fulfill the newspaper notice publication requirement. You'll need to manage that to comply with the law.
Step 6: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) From the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes, when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees and when opening a business bank account. You can obtain one directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the NYS LLC formation process.
Step 7: Create an Operating Agreement
A sort of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreemen
t outlines how the business is divided among members, how decisions will be made and what will happen should a member leave the company.
Section 417
of the New York Limited Liability Company Law requires that LLC members adopt a written Operating Agreement. It doesn't need to be filed with the NYS Division of Corporations, but should be kept on hand to fulfill the legal requirement and to protect your business from any future changes and events.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other New York State LLC Types
Series LLC
Though many states allow this type of business entity, no legislation has been adopted to allow the Series LLC in New York.
Professional LLC
Some states, including New York, allow certain occupations to form Professional Service Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). These types of businesses typically have specialized requirements and licensing.

The specific occupations that can form a PLLC in New York include attorneys, counselors-at-law, licensed physicians and occupations designated in
Title Eight of the Education Law
.
Learn More About State PLLC Requirements
Foreign LLC
If your business operates in another state and you want to expand into New York — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Foreign Qualification in New York
.
Helpful Resources from the State of New York
Department of State
Department of Labor
Department of Taxation and Finance
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
New York Business Names
How to search the state business registry to find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving a New York State LLC name and more.
2
New York Registered Agents
How to appoint, change, and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the duties they fulfill and the rules they’re required to follow.
3
New York LLC Fees and Requirements
The various fees you’ll need to pay, and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details about Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
New York Business Taxes
The various taxes you’ll have to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details about state taxes such as sales and use, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now