Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a North Carolina LLC?
The state offers several
business grants and incentives
, as well as
tax savings
, provided your LLC meets certain criteria. For example, new or growing companies may qualify for the
Job Development Investment Grant
, which provides cash to help offset the costs of expanding or locating business facilities in the state.
For most people looking to start a business, the fastest and easiest way is to create a North Carolina limited liability company (LLC). It's a type of business entity ideal for startups and small- tomedium-sized businesses. You get the advantages and protections of larger North Carolina corporations, but with much simpler rules and regulations.
Benefits of Starting a North Carolina LLC:
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Easy to create, manage, administer and remain compliant
Potential tax treatment advantages and easy filing
Low filing fee ($125)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
North Carolina business taxes
and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC and how you'll interact with the North Carolina Secretary of State.
How to Form a North Carolina LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a North Carolina Business Search
You'll need a distinctive and original name for your North Carolina LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try out Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You’ll need to follow some naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
North Carolina LLC business names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a business name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in North Carolina. To find out whether another company is using your desired name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can
carry out a name search
on the NC Secretary of State website.
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Every North Carolina LLC must have a designated street address. It could be your home address (if you’re running the company from your residence), an office building or any physical location. The address can be outside the state, but cannot be a P.O. Box.
If you find securing a physical address difficult, you may be able to use a virtual mailbox instead. Bizee can provide you with a
North Carolina virtual mailbox
, where we'll receive your mail and scan it for you to access online. This can be especially helpful if you run your business from home and don't want your home address published in the public record.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official correspondence on behalf of a business and is responsible for filing reports with the NC Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent. Every LLC in North Carolina is required to have one.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
North Carolina Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical address in the state and must be present to receive important documents for your company during business hours. In North Carolina, you designate your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and officially form your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About North Carolina Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the NC Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your North Carolina LLC, you’ll need to file a form with the NC Secretary of State, which will create your Articles of Organization. This filing officially creates your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be perpetual or limited)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download Form L-01 Here
Your Articles of Organization
can be filed online
with the NC Secretary of State, you can mail a form to the Office of the Secretary of State or you can have Bizee do everything on your behalf. The
North Carolina LLC filing fee
is $125. There's an additional $2 electronic transaction fee if you file online.
File by Mail
NC Secretary of State
Business Registration Division
P.O. Box 29622
Raleigh, NC 27626-0622
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you'll need to file an annual report. Bizee can either remind you to do this, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the North Carolina State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form an LLC in North Carolina?
State Fee
$128*
State Filling Time
4 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Days
*includes electronic transaction fee
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
April 15th
Filing Fee
$203
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can obtain one
directly from the IRS
, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the North Carolina LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A sort of "instruction manual" that explains how your business will be run, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen should a member leave the company.
Some states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place. It's not required in North Carolina, but it’s a good idea to have one for your own protection and peace of mind.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other North Carolina LLC Types
Professional LLC
Some states, including North Carolina, allow certain businesses to form Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). A North Carolina Professional LLC will typically require members to be licensed, and possibly impose other specific requirements as well.
Note that the
state also permits
the formation of Professional Corporations and Professional Associations, both of which are different and separate from a PLLC. A North Carolina PLLC must comply with
Statute 55
and
Statute 55B
under the state's Professional Corporations Act.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to North Carolina — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
North Carolina Foreign LLC registration.
Helpful Resources From the State of North Carolina
Secretary of State
Department of Labor
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your North Carolina LLC
How to search the business registry of the NC Secretary of State to find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving a North Carolina LLC name and more.
2
North Carolina Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
North Carolina LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details on Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
North Carolina Business Tax
How to understand the various taxes you’ll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now