Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create
a North Dakota
LLC?
The are several
incentives
within the state of North Dakota that businesses can take advantage of, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. For example,
Opportunity Zones Incentives
have been made available as a new community development program established by Congress to encourage long-term investments in low-income and urban communities nationwide.
For entrepreneurs wanting to start a business in North Dakota, creating a North Dakota limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way. With more simplified rules and regulations, an LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger North Dakota corporations benefit from.
Benefits of Starting a North Dakota LLC:
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Create, manage, regulate, administer and stay in compliance easily
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Low cost to file ($135)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
North Dakota business taxes
and much more. We also cover your registration needs, filing your North Dakota LLC and how you'll correspond with the North Dakota Secretary of State (SOS).
How to Form an LLC in North Dakota Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a North Dakota LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
To start the process, you’ll need a name for your LLC that’s unique and stands out, but you'll want to make sure that it's not being used by any other business or formed entity in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
North Dakota Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in North Dakota. To find out whether another corporation or company in the state is already using your preferred business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also carry out a name search within the North Dakota Secretary of State's website via their
business search.
We Can Search the State of North Dakota Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every North Dakota LLC must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the state of North Dakota, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the North Dakota Secretary of State (SOS). Every LLC in North Dakota is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
North Dakota Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in North Dakota and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on the behalf of your business. In North Dakota, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. We also provide you with access to our dashboard where you can easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About North Dakota Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the North Dakota Secretary of State (SOS)
Once you've gathered all the information for your North Dakota LLC, you’ll need to file your
Articles of Organization
with the North Dakota Secretary of State.
The certificate must include:
Name of your LLC
Principal address of the business
The primary purpose of the business
Name, address and contact information of the Registered Agent
Whether the LLC is will be member-managed or manager-managed
Name(s) and signature(s) of authorized person(s)
Your Articles of Organization should be filed online with the North Dakota Secretary of State, via the
online business portal.
The
North Dakota LLC filing fee
is $135.
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, however all LLCs in North Dakota must file an annual report via
the online business service portal
once a year to remain compliant with the Secretary of State. The annual report filing fee set by the ND Secretary of State is $50.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the North Dakota State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in North Dakota?
State Fee
$135
State Filling Time
3  Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
7 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
November 15th
Filing Fee
$50
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) From the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the North Dakota LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
An operating agreement is a kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business. An
LLC Operating Agreement
will outline key components of your business - how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Although some states require businesses to have this document in place, you're not legally required to have an
LLC Operating Agreement
in place to conduct business in North Dakota. We do recommend having one for your business regardless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other North Dakota LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to North Dakota—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
North Dakota Foreign LLC registration.
Helpful Resources from the State of North Dakota
North Dakota Secretary of State
North Dakota SOS Online Business Portal
North Dakota Department of Labor and Human Rights
North Dakota State Tax Commissioner
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your North Dakota LLC
How to search the ND Secretary of State’s business registry to find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, trade or fictitious names, reserving an LLC name and more.
2
North Dakota Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
North Dakota LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
North Dakota Business Tax Rules
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now