Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create an Oklahoma LLC?
The state offers
numerous business incentives
and tax exemptions and credits, provided your LLC meets specific criteria.
For example, if your business has 500 or fewer employees, you may qualify for the
Small Employer Quality Jobs Program
. The program offers quarterly incentive payments of up to 5 percent of new taxable payroll for up to seven years.
Most entrepreneurs in the state will find that the fastest and easiest way to start a business is to create an Oklahoma limited liability company (LLC). It's an entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. An LLC gives you the advantages and protections that larger Oklahoma corporations benefit from, but with simplified rules and regulations.
The state offers
numerous business incentives
and tax exemptions and credits, provided your LLC meets specific criteria.
For example, if your business has 500 or fewer employees, you may qualify for the
Small Employer Quality Jobs Program
. The program offers quarterly incentive payments of up to 5 percent of new taxable payroll for up to seven years.
Most entrepreneurs in the state will find that the fastest and easiest way to start a business is to create an Oklahoma limited liability company (LLC). It's an entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. An LLC gives you the advantages and protections that larger Oklahoma corporations benefit from, but with simplified rules and regulations.
Benefits of Starting an Oklahoma LLC:
Separates and protects your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation and administration
Easy tax filing and tax treatment advantages
Low filing fee ($100)
Learn more about the
advantages of an LLC
business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Oklahoma business taxes
and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC, and how you'll interact with the Oklahoma Secretary of State
How to Form an Oklahoma LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete an Oklahoma LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You’ll need to choose a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Oklahoma Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Oklahoma. To find out whether another company in the state is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also
carry out a name search
on the Oklahoma Secretary of State website.
We Can Search the Oklahoma Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address
Whether you want to run your business from an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every LLC in Oklahoma must have a designated street address. It's allowed to be outside the state, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign an Agent for Service of Process
A person or business who receives official legal and tax correspondence and has responsibility for filing reports with the Oklahoma Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent. Every LLC in Oklahoma is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position is official and can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Oklahoma Registered Agent
is a person, they must reside and have a physical street address in Oklahoma, and they must be present to receive important documents for your company during business hours. In Oklahoma, you designate your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee's packages include a Registered Agent service that is free for the first year and just $119 per year afterward. You'll be able to log in to our dashboard where you can easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Oklahoma Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the California Secretary of State
Once you have all the information you need for your Oklahoma LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the Oklahoma Secretary of State to create your Articles of Organization and officially form your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Information about your Agent for Service of Process
The company's management structure
Download Form 0073-07/20 Here
Your Oklahoma Articles of Organization
can be filed online
with the Oklahoma Secretary of State, you can mail a form to the Office of the Secretary of State, or you can have Bizee do it on your behalf. The
Oklahoma LLC filing fee
is $100.
File by Mail
Oklahoma Secretary of State
421 N.W. 13th, Suite 210
Oklahoma City, OK 73103
You only need to file your Oklahoma Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you must file an annual report. Oklahoma refers to this report as an annual certificate. We can remind you to do this, or we can handle the paperwork on your behalf.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Oklahoma State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Oklahoma?
State Fee
$104
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Days
*includes online processing fees
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
By the anniversary date of organization.
Filing Fee
$26*
*includes a $1 online filing fee
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
To identify your business to the IRS, you’ll need an EIN. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees, or if you want to open a business bank account. You can
obtain one directly
from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Oklahoma LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
An
LLC Operating Agreement
is a sort of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business and has details on how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what happens if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have this agreement in place. You're not legally required to have an
Oklahoma LLC Operating Agreement
in place, but it’s a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Oklahoma LLC Types
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Oklahoma — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Oklahoma Foreign LLC registration
.
Professional LLC
Different from professional corporations, Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine.
To form an Oklahoma PLLC, you must
file a form
to create your Articles of Organization and pay a fee of $100.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one may be right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business operates in another state and you want to expand into California — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
California Foreign LLC registration
.
Series LLC
If you want to manage multiple LLCs under one umbrella LLC, you’ll need to create a Series LLC. To do so, you'll simply indicate that intention in your Oklahoma Articles of Organization when you
file the form
.
Decide whether an Oklahoma Series LLC
is right for your business
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Oklahoma
Secretary of State
Department of Labor
Tax Commission
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Oklahoma LLC
How to search the Oklahoma Secretary of State's registry to find an available name for your business. Includes information on naming rules, trade names, reserving an LLC name and more.
2
Oklahoma Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents, and the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Oklahoma LLC Fees and Requirements
How to anticipate the various fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you must meet for both state and federal rules. Includes Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Oklahoma Business Tax Rules
Information about the various taxes you'll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes, such as sales and income, and federal taxes, such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now