Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create an Oregon LLC?
The state offers numerous business benefits, including
several tax incentives
, provided your LLC meets specific criteria. For example, if you start a business in certain Oregon counties, you may qualify for the
Oregon Investment Advantage
. The program allows you to deduct taxable income related to business operations for a specified period of time.
For most people wanting to start a business, creating an Oregon limited liability company (LLC) is the fastest and easiest way. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections that larger Oregon corporations benefit from, but with simplified rules and regulations.
If an LLC isn't the right entity for the type of business you're starting, you may want to consider forming an
Oregon Corporation
instead.
Benefits of starting an Oregon LLC:
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Simple to create, manage, regulate, administer and stay in compliance
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Low cost to file ($100)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Oregon business taxes
and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC and how you'll interact with the Oregon Secretary of State.
How to Form an Oregon LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a State Business Search
You’ll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Oregon Business Names page
.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Oregon. To find out whether another company in the state is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also
carry out a name search
on the Oregon Secretary of State website.
We Can Search the State of Oregon Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for Your LLC
Whether it’s an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every LLC in Oregon must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
If you run a home-based business and don't want your home address published as part of your business public record, you may be able to use a virtual mailbox instead. Regardless of where your business is located, it offers you convenience. Bizee can provide you with an
Oregon virtual mailbox
where we'll receive your mail and scan it for your online review.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Oregon Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent. Every LLC in Oregon is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Oregon Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Oregon and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company. In Oregon, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Oregon Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee Use name search Tool
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization With the Oregon Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Oregon LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the Oregon Secretary of State to create your Articles of Organization. Filing it officially creates your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be perpetual or limited)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download Articles of Organization Form
Your Articles of Organization
can be filed online
with the Oregon Secretary of State, you can mail a form to the Office of the Secretary of State, or you can have Bizee do it on your behalf.
File by Mail
Secretary of State, Corporation Division
255 Capitol St. NE
Suite 151
Salem, OR 97310
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you must file an annual report. Bizee can either remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Oregon State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the fees and requirements to form a business in Oregon?
State Fee
$100
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
On or before the anniversary of LLC’s date of organization.
Filing Fee
$100
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) From the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Oregon LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have this document in place. You're not legally required to have an Operating Agreement in Oregon, but it’s a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Oregon LLC Types
Professional LLC
Different from professional corporations, Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
The state doesn't make a distinction between an Oregon PLLC and a standard LLC. Instead, they'll allow an LLC that renders professional services to register as a standard LLC.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Oregon—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Oregon Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Oregon
Secretary of State
Bureau of Labor and Industries
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Oregon LLC
How to search the Oregon business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving an Oregon LLC name, and more.
2
Oregon Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Oregon LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
Oregon Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you’ll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now