Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Start a Pennsylvania LLC?
The state offers a wide variety of business incentives and tax credits to help business owners start and grow their businesses. For example, the
Educational Improvement Tax Credit
(EITC) program is available to certain businesses that contribute to educational improvement organizations and scholarship organizations (including pre-kindergarten) to offer educational opportunities to Pennsylvania students.
For most aspiring business owners, the fastest and easiest way to start a business in Pennsylvania is by creating an LLC. A limited liability company (LLC) is a type of business entity that’s ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. You get the advantages and protections of larger Pennsylvania corporations but with much simpler rules and regulations.
The state offers a wide variety of business incentives and tax credits to help business owners start and grow their businesses. For example, the
Educational Improvement Tax Credit
(EITC) program is available to certain businesses that contribute to educational improvement organizations and scholarship organizations (including pre-kindergarten) to offer educational opportunities to Pennsylvania students.
For most aspiring business owners, the fastest and easiest way to start a business in Pennsylvania is by creating an LLC. A limited liability company (LLC) is a type of business entity that’s ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. You get the advantages and protections of larger Pennsylvania corporations but with much simpler rules and regulations.
Benefits of starting a Pennsylvania LLC:
No franchise tax
Low cost to file ($125)
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Lenient decennial report filing rules
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation and administration of your Pennsylvania LLC
Protecting your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Learn more about the benefits of the LLC
business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on searching for and naming your PA LLC, getting a Pennsylvania Registered Agent (also called a Commercial Registered Office Provider), the fees you’ll need to pay, filing business taxes and much more. We also cover the various ways you’ll interact with the Pennsylvania Department of State, filing your LLC and your registration needs.
How to Form a Pennsylvania LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a Pennsylvania LLC Search
You will need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in PA. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try out Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas.
There are also a few naming rules you’ll need to follow, which you can read about in detail on our
Pennsylvania Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Pennsylvania. To find out if another company is using your chosen business name, use Bizee’s fast and easy Business Name Search tool below. Alternatively, you can
carry out a search
on the PA Department of State website.
We’ll Search the Pennsylvania Department of State Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for Your LLC
Whether it’s an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every LLC in Pennsylvania must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
However, Bizee can provide you with a
Pennsylvania virtual mailbox
to use as your business address. We'll receive your mail and scan it for your online review. This can be especially desirable if you run a home-based business and don't want your home address to become public record.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Every LLC in the state is required to have a Registered Agent, known in the state as a Commercial Registered Office Provider. We use these terms interchangeably. This is an official position. This is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the PA Department of State.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your agent is a person, they must reside in and have a physical street address in Pennsylvania, and they must be present to receive important documents for your company during business hours. You designate your Registered Agent when you file your Certificate of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Commercial Registered Office Provider service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Pennsylvania Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Pennsylvania Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Pennsylvania LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the PA Department of State to create your Certificate of Organization. Filing it officially creates your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be perpetual or limited)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download Form DSCB:15-8821 Here
File by Mail
Pennsylvania Department of State
Bureau of Corporations and Charitable Organizations
P.O. Box 8722
Harrisburg, PA 17105-8722
You'll also need to file a
docketing statement
, which provides the state with your business tax information.
Both of these forms can be filed via the
state's online portal
, Penn File. You can also mail the forms to the Office of the Department of State or have Bizee do it on your behalf. The
Pennsylvania LLC filing fee
is $125 fee, plus $3 per page if you file paper copies.
You only need to file your Certificate of Organization once. You'll also need to file what is considered an annual report in most states. However, Pennsylvania only requires this report to be submitted on a decennial basis (every 10 years), in years ending with "1," e.g., 2021, 2031, etc. That decennial report is only necessary if no other filings have been submitted during that time, such as agent changes, business amendments, etc.
This is something Bizee can remind you to do, or we can do it for you if you have us complete the paperwork.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Pennsylvania State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Pennsylvania?
State Fee
$131
State Filling Time
4 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
4 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Decennially in years ending with 
the number “1” (2021, 2031, etc.)
Due Date
Any time during the reporting year.

*The decennial filing is only required if no other filing (agent changes, amendments, etc.) have been submitted to the state during that 10 year period.
Filing Fee
$70
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You will need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can
obtain one directly
from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Pennsylvania LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that details how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
outlines how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have this document in place. It isn’t legally required in Pennsylvania, but it’s a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Pennsylvania LLC Types
Restricted Professional Company
Some states allow certain occupations to form Professional LLCs. These types of businesses typically have specialized requirements and licensing.
Pennsylvania calls these entities Restricted Professional  Companies and defines them as follows:
Restricted professional companies –
15 Pa.C.S. §§ 8995-8998
and
19 Pa. Code Chapter 71
.
Limited liability companies rendering certain professional services must form as a restricted professional company. If a limited liability company is a restricted professional company, its certificate of organization or foreign registration statement must contain a statement to that effect, including a brief description of the restricted professional service or services to be rendered by the company. Restricted professional services are defined as the following professional services: chiropractic, dentistry, law, medicine and surgery, optometry, osteopathic medicine and surgery, podiatric medicine, public accounting, psychology or veterinary medicine.
Any domestic or foreign restricted professional company in existence on December 31 of any year is required to file a
Certificate of Annual Registration
(DSCB:15-8221/8998). This form and the corresponding annual registration fee must be filed on or before April 15 of the following year. Failure to file the annual registration will result in additional fees, penalties and interest. A Uniform Commercial Code lien will also be placed against the business until all fees have been satisfied."
Foreign LLC
If your business operates in another state and you want to expand to Pennsylvania — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Pennsylvania Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Pennsylvania
Department of State
Department of Labor
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Pennsylvania LLC
How to search the business registry of the PA Department of State and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving a Pennsylvania LLC name and more.
2
Pennsylvania Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for a Registered Agent. Includes the rules they must follow.
3
Pennsylvania LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Pennsylvania Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you’ll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now