Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create
a Tennessee
LLC?
Tennessee boasts an extensive
network of resources for entrepreneurs.
The state also offers
numerous tax incentives
for new businesses that meet such requirements as creating new jobs and doing so in economically distressed counties.
For most business owners, the fastest and easiest way to start a business is by creating a Tennessee limited liability company (LLC), a business entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. You get the advantages and protections of larger Tennessee corporations, but with much simpler rules and regulations.
Benefits of Starting a Tennessee LLC:
Perpetual existence (unless otherwise stated in the Articles of Organization)
Simple management, filing, regulation, compliance and administration
Separating your business debts and liability from your personal ones
No state income tax on wages
Learn more about the
benefits of the LLC business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Tennessee business taxes
and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC and how you'll interact with the Tennessee Secretary of State.
How to Form a Tennessee LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Tennessee LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You'll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, use Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. There are also a few naming rules you’ll need to follow. You can read about those on the
Tennessee Business Names
page.
One Tennessee rule, for example, is that to use
words associated with certain qualified professions
— such as insurance, surety, underwriters, bank, bankers or banking — you must obtain permission from the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you must ensure it’s available in Tennessee. To find out whether another company is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. Alternatively, you can search the Tennessee Secretary of State website.
We Can Search the Tennessee Secretary of State Registry for You
Use Bizee’s Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Whether it’s an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every LLC in Tennessee must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone designated to act on your behalf to receive official legal and tax correspondence and file reports with the Tennessee Secretary of State. Every LLC in Tennessee must have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in the business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Tennessee Registered Agent
is a person, they must reside and have a physical street address in Tennessee and must be present during business hours to receive important documents for your company. In Tennessee, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service that’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. We also have a dashboard where you can log in and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Tennessee Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Tennessee Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Tennessee LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the Tennessee Secretary of State to create your Articles of Organization and officially create your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be limited)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download Certificate of Formation Form
Your Tennessee Articles of Organization
can be filed online
via the Tennessee Secretary of State system, or you can mail in a form to the Office of the Secretary of State, or Bizee can do it on your behalf. The
Tennessee LLC filing fee
is $50 per member, with a minimum fee of $300 and a maximum fee of $3,000.
File by Mail
Tennessee Secretary of State
312 Rosa L. Parks Ave.6th floor,
Snodgrass Tower
Attn: Business Filings & Information
Nashville, TN 37243-1102
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but you must file an annual report every year thereafter. This is something Bizee can remind you to do, or we can take care of it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Tennessee State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Tennessee?
State Fee
$308
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
1 Business Day
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Calender Year: April 1st.
Fiscal Year: 1st day of 4th month following close of fiscal year.
Filing Fee
$308*
*includes online processing fees
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
When paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees, you’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. An
EIN
is also needed to open a business bank account. You can
obtain one directly
from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Tennessee LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place. The Tennessee Limited Liability Company Act governs the creation and management of LLCs, so the state doesn't require Operating Agreements.
However, the Tennessee LLC Act can be somewhat limiting (and comprises
more than 100 pages
of rules and exceptions to rules), so to give yourself more flexibility and protection in running your business, you may prefer to create your own Operating Agreement.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Gold or Platinum Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Tennessee LLC Types
Series LLC
In Tennessee, you also have the option to set up a Series LLC. This specialized entity allows you to manage multiple LLCs under one umbrella LLC. It's useful if you don’t want to set up a separate Tennessee LLC for every individual business you run.
To create a Series LLC, Tennessee requires you to
indicate that intent when you file
your Articles of Organization. You'll also be required to pay a fee.
Decide whether a
Series LLC
is right for your new business.
Professional LLC
Some states, including Tennessee, allow certain types of businesses to form Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). A Tennessee PLLC will typically require members to be licensed and impose other specialized requirements as well.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and whether it's right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Tennessee—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Get more information on how to establish a
Tennessee Foreign LLC
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Tennessee
Secretary of State
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Tennessee LLC
How to search the Tennessee Secretary of State's business registry to find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving an LLC name and more.
2
Tennessee Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they're required to follow.
3
Tennessee LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you’ll need to meet for both state and federal rules. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Tennessee Business Taxes
How to understand the various taxes you'll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income taxes, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment taxes.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now