Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a Utah LLC?
Within the state of Utah, business owners can take advantage of several
corporate incentives
, provided your LLC meets the specific criteria. In addition to the incentives provided by the Utah Governor's Office of Economic Development (mentioned above), Utah also offers a
microloan
to small businesses requiring access to capital. The Utah Micro Loan Fund was started to provide business training and small business loans of up to $50,000 to entrepreneurs in start-up & existing businesses.
Creating a Utah limited liability company (LLC) is generally the fastest and easiest way for entrepreneurs looking to start a business in Utah. With more simplified rules and regulations, an LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, granting you the advantages and protections from which larger Utah corporations benefit.
Benefits of Starting a Utah LLC:
Create, manage, regulate, administer, and stay in compliance easily
Easily file your taxes and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Low filing fee ($54)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Utah business taxes
, and much more. We also cover your registration needs, filing your Utah LLC, and how you'll correspond with the Utah Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations and Commercial Code (DCCC).
How to Form an LLC in Utah Yourself in Six Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Utah LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
To start the process, you’ll need a name for your LLC that’s unique and stands out, but one that’s not used by any other business or formed entity in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Utah Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Utah. To find out whether another company in the state is already using your preferred business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also carry out a name search on the Utah Department of Commerce, DCCC
online business entity search
.
We Can Search the State of Utah Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Regardless of whether your business is in an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence), or any other physical location, every Utah LLC must have a designated street address. It can be located outside the state of Utah, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
A Registered Agent is someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Utah Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations, and Commercial Code. Every LLC in Utah is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business, or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Utah Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Utah and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your business.
In Utah, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Certificate of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Utah Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Form Your LLC with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Certificate of Organization With the Utah Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations, and Commercial Code (DCCC)
Once you've gathered all the information for your Utah LLC, you’ll need to file your
Certificate of Organization
with the Utah Department of Commerce, DCCC.
The certificate must include:
Name of your LLC
Principal office address (both street and mailing)
Registered agent and contact information
Names and signatures of all organizers
Names and addresses of members/managers
Duration of the business entity
Purpose of the business entity
Your Certificate of Organization can be filed online by using a one-stop system provided by the Utah Department of Commerce, DCCC, or in person, by mailing or faxing a printed form to the DCCC. The
Utah LLC filing fee
is $54.
File by Mail
Utah Division of Corporations & Commercial Code
PO Box 146705
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-6705
File in Person
Utah Division of Corporations & Commercial Code
160 East 300 South 2nd Floor
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
File by Fax
Utah Division of Corporations & Commercial Code
(801) 530-6438
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Utah State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What Are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Utah?
State Fee
$54
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
5 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Due by the last day of the anniversary month of filling.
Filing Fee
$20
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or you can have Bizee obtain one for you as part of the Utah LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details key components of your business - how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members, and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Although some states require that a company have this document in place, you're not legally required to have a
Utah LLC Operating Agreement
. We think it’s still a good idea to have one regardless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Utah LLC Types
Professional LLC
Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) are different from professional corporations in that they typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Utah — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Utah Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Utah
Utah Department of Commerce, Division of Corporations, and Commercial Code
Utah State Tax Commission
Utah Labor Commission
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your Utah LLC
How to search the Utah business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, fictitious names, reserving a Utah LLC name, and more.
2
Utah Registered Agents
How to appoint, change, and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Utah LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
Utah Business Tax Rules
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now