Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create a Vermont LLC?
The state of Vermont offers numerous
funding and incentive
opportunities, provided that your LLC meets specific criteria. For example, if you start a business in specific Vermont industries, you may qualify for the
Vermont Training Program
. This program may enable some companies to qualify for grants of up to 50% of their training costs, supporting their employees with quality training either in-house or through an external organization.
Creating a Vermont limited liability company (LLC) is typically the fastest and easiest way to start a business. Ideal for startups and small to medium-sized businesses, an LLC is a business entity capable of granting you the advantages and protections that larger Vermont corporations benefit from, but with more simplified rules and regulations.
Benefits of Starting a Vermont LLC:
Quick and simple creation, management, regulation, administration and compliance
Protect your personal assets from your business liability and debts
File your taxes easily and discover potential advantages for tax treatment
Low cost to file ($125)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure
.
In this in-depth guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, the fees you’ll need to pay, getting a Registered Agent,
Vermont Business Taxes
and much more. We’ll also go over what information you'll need to register and file your LLC and how you'll correspond with the Vermont Secretary of State (SOS).
How to Form an LLC in Vermont Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Vermont LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You’ll need a name for your LLC that is not used by any other business in the state, but still remains distinctive and original. You can brainstorm name ideas using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
if you’re having trouble coming up with a name. You'll also need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Vermont Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Vermont. To find out whether another company in the state is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also discover this information from the state by carrying out a name search on the Vermont Secretary of State
online database
.
We Can Search the State of Vermont Business Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Whether it’s an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence) or any other physical location, every LLC in Vermont must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, but it cannot be a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Vermont Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent. Every LLC in Vermont is required to have a Registered Agent.
This position can be filled by you, another manager in your business or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Vermont Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Vermont and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company. In Vermont, you appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization and formally create your business.
All of Bizee’s packages include a Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also log in to our dashboard and easily view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Vermont Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Vermont Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Vermont LLC, you’ll need to file articles of organization with the Vermont SOS.
The articles must include:
The name of the company
The address of the initial designated office
The name and street address of the initial agent for service of process
If the company has no members at the time of filing, a statement to that effect
Names of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Whether the LLC will be member-managed or manager-managed
Whether the company is an L3C
Name of the organizer
Signature of the organizer
Your Articles of Organization
can be filed online
with the Vermont Secretary of State Corporations Division, you can mail them to the Office of the Secretary of State, or you can have Bizeedo it on your behalf. Online filing is the preferred method of the Vermont SOS, and the turnaround time for creating your LLC is much quicker. To file by postal mail, you must complete the online filing process and then select this option. The
Vermont LLC filing fee
is $125.
File by Mail
Vermont Secretary of State
Corporations Division
128 State Street
Montpelier, VT 05633-1104
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you must
file an annual report online
. The fee for this, set by the Vermont SOS, is $35. Bizeecan either remind you to do it, or we can do it for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Vermont State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Vermont?
State Fee
$125
State Filling Time
3  Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Calendar Year: March 31
Financial Year: Within 2½ months after end of fiscal year.
Filing Fee
$35
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an EIN to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account. You can obtain one directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Vermont LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
An
LLC Operating Agreement
is a kind of “instruction manual” that explains how you’ll run your business and details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require that a company have this document in place. You're not legally required to have a
Vermont LLC Operating Agreement
, but it’s a good idea to have one regardless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Vermont LLC Types
Professional LLC
Different from professional corporations, Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs) typically have licensing requirements applicable to certain fields, such as law and medicine. In order to form a PLLC, you may need a state license to practice.
The state doesn't make a distinction between a Vermont PLLC and a standard LLC. Instead, they'll allow an LLC that renders professional services to register as a standard LLC.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which one is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Vermont—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Vermont Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the State of Vermont
Secretary of State
Vermont General Assembly
Department of Taxes
More Information in This Guide
1
How to Name Your Vermont LLC
How to search the Vermont Secretary of State’s business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving a Vermont LLC name and more.
2
Vermont Registered Agents
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Vermont LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports and more.
4
Vermont Business Tax Rules
How to understand the various taxes you will need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
Launch your business with bizee
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now