Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Start
a Virginia
LLC?
In 2019, Virginia was ranked the #4
best state for business in the U.S.
Located right next to Washington D.C., Virginia is located within 745 miles of
56% of all U.S. consumers
, giving it a centralized location to conduct business.
For most people who want to start a business, creating a Virginia limited liability company (LLC) is the easiest and fastest way. An LLC is an ideal business entity for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses because it offers the advantages and protections that larger corporations benefit from, but with simpler rules and regulations.
If an LLC isn't the right entity for the type of business you're starting, you may want to consider forming a
Virginia Corporation
instead.
Benefits of Starting a Virginia LLC:
Quickly and simply file, manage, ensure compliance, regulate and administer of your Virginia LLC
Separate and limit your personal liability from your business liability and debts
Easily file taxes and find potential advantages for tax treatment
Low cost to file ($100)
Learn more about the benefits of the
LLC business structure.
In this guide, you’ll find information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay, business taxes and much more. We also cover what you'll need to register and file your LLC, and how you'll interact with the Virginia State Corporation Commission.
Starting a Business in Virginia Checklist
To help you along the way, use our
Starting a Business checklist
to keep track of everything you need to do to get your business up and running.
How to Form a Virginia LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Choose a Unique Business Name and Complete a State Business Search
You’ll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in VA. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using our
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Virginia Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Virginia. To find out whether another company is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also
carry out a name search
on the Virginia State Corporation Commission website.
We Can Search the Virginia Company Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for Your VA LLC
Every Virginia LLC must have a designated street address, whether it’s an office building, a home (if you run the company from your residence) or any other physical location. It can be outside the state, and it cannot be a P.O. Box.
You may also be able to use a virtual mailbox for your business address. Bizee can provide you with a
Virginia virtual mailbox
, where we'll receive your mail and scan it for your online review. This can be especially convenient if you run a home-based business and don't want your home address published as part of your business public record.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official correspondence and is responsible for filing reports with the Virginia Secretary of State is known as a Registered Agent. Every Virginia LLC is required to have a Registered Agent.
You can fill this position, assign another manager in your business or use a Registered Agent service. If your
Virginia Registered Agent
is a person, they must have a physical street address in Virginia and must be present during business hours to receive important documents on behalf of your company.
You'll appoint your Registered Agent when you file your Articles of Organization in Virginia to create your business.
All of Bizee’s business formation packages include Registered Agent service. It’s free for the first year and just $119 per year after that. You can also access a digital dashboard to view any document we've received on your behalf.
Learn More About Virginia Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Start Your Business with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization with the Virginia State Corporation Commission
Once you've gathered all the information for your LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the State Corporation Commission to create your Articles of Organization in Virginia. This will officially create your business.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Details of your Registered Agent
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be perpetual or limited)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Name of the organizer
Download Form LLC1011 Here
Your Articles of Organization
can be filed online
via the state's digital portal. You can also mail the form to the Office of the Secretary of State, or Bizee can file it on your behalf.
Virginia LLC filing fee
is $100.
File by Mail
State Corporation Commission
Clerk’s Office
P.O. Box 1197
Richmond, VA 23218-1197
You only need to file your Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you'll also need to file an annual report. Bizee can remind you about this every year, or we can do it for you if you have us handle the paperwork.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Virginia State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Virginia LLC?
State Fee
$100
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
2 Business Days
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
Last day of anniversary month of organization
Filing Fee
$50
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You'll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use this number when filing and paying taxes or when submitting payroll information and payments for your employees. An EIN is also required to open a business bank account.
You can obtain one
directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Virginia LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
outlines how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members and what will happen if a member leaves the company.
Some states require companies to create this document. You're not legally required to have a Virginia Operating Agreement, but it’s a good idea to have one to protect your business from any future changes and events.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Virginia LLC Types
Foreign LLC
If your business operates in another state and you want to expand into Virginia—or vice versa—you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Virginia Foreign LLC registration
.
Helpful Resources from the Virginia State Corporation Commission
State Corporation Commission
Employment Commission
Department of Taxation
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
Virginia Business Names
How to search the state business registry and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, assumed names, reserving a business name and more.
2
Virginia Registered Agent Service
How to appoint, change and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the duties they fulfill and the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Virginia LLC Fees and Requirements
Details the various fees you’ll need to pay, and the state and federal requirements you’ll need to meet. Includes information about Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, public information reports and more.
4
Virginia Business Taxes
Covers the various taxes you’ll have to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details about state taxes such as sales and franchise, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now