Learn more
Skip to content
How To Guide
Naming Your Business
Registered Agent
Filing Fees & Requirements
Business Taxes
FAQ
What To Do Next?
Why Create
a Wyoming
LLC?
Wyoming was the first state in the U.S. to recognize and
create statutes for LLCs
. The state has since continued that forward thinking and offers
several business incentives
, including numerous grants and loans. Wyoming also consistently places in the top 10 in the Tax Foundation's
State Business Tax Climate Index
, including ranking at number one every year
since 2011
.
For most people looking to start a business, the fastest and easiest way is to create a Wyoming limited liability company (LLC), an entity ideal for startups and small- to medium-sized businesses. It gives you the advantages and protections that larger Wyoming corporations benefit from, but with simpler rules and regulations.
Benefits of
Starting a
Wyoming LLC:
No state income tax
Low formation cost of just $100
Protects your personal assets from your business liability and debts
Easy tax filing and potential advantages for tax treatment
Quick and simple filing, management, compliance, regulation, and administrationt
Learn more about the
benefits of the LLC business structure
.
In this guide, you’ll learn how to form an LLC in Wyoming. It includes information on naming your LLC, getting a Registered Agent, the fees you’ll need to pay,
Wyoming business taxes
, and much more. We’ll also cover everything you need to register and file your LLC and how you'll work with the Wyoming Secretary of State.
How to Form a Wyoming LLC Yourself in 6 Steps
On this page
How To Guide
Step 1: Complete a Wyoming LLC Search and Choose a Unique Business Name
You’ll need a distinctive and original name for your LLC that’s not used by any other business in the state. If you’re having trouble coming up with a name, try using Bizee’s
Business Name Generator
to brainstorm ideas. You'll need to follow a few naming rules, which you can read about in detail on the
Wyoming Business Names
page.
Once you’ve chosen a name, you’ll need to make sure it’s available in Wyoming. To find out whether another company is using your chosen business name, use our tool to do a
business name search
. You can also
carry out a name search
on the Wyoming Secretary of State's website.
We Can Search the Wyoming Secretary of State Registry for You
Use Bizee's Business Name Search Tool
Step 2: Provide an Official Business Address for your LLC
Whether it’s an office building, a home (if the company is run from a residence), or any other physical location, every LLC in Wyoming must have a designated street address. It can be outside the state, and you can choose to use a P.O. Box.
Step 3: Assign a Registered Agent
Someone who receives official legal and tax correspondence and has responsibility for filing reports with the Wyoming Secretary of State is called a Registered Agent.
Every LLC in Wyoming is required to have a Registered Agent.This position can be filled by you, another manager in the business, or a dedicated Registered Agent service. If your
Wyoming Registered Agent
is a person, they must be at least 18 years of age, reside in the state, and have a physical street address in Wyoming. They must also be present during business hours to receive important documents for your company. In Wyoming, you select your Registered Agent when you formally create your business by filing your Wyoming Articles of Organization.
At Bizee, all of our packages include a Registered Agent service that is free for the first year and just $119 per year afterward. We also have a dashboard where you can log in and easily view any document your Registered Agent has received on your behalf.
Learn More About Wyoming Registered Agents
Get a Free Registered Agent When You Form Your LLC with Bizee
Step 4: File Your Articles of Organization With the Wyoming Secretary of State
Once you've gathered all the information for your Wyoming LLC, you’ll need to
file a form
with the Secretary of State to create your Articles of Organization, which officially creates your LLC.
Here’s what is typically included:
Your business name and address
Your Registered Agent details
Purpose of your business
Duration (can be pemanent)
Provisions for the regulation of the internal affairs of the company
Names and addresses of managers or members of the LLC at the time of filing
Names and addresses of organizers
Download Articles of Formation Form
You can file your Wyoming Articles of Organization online using the
state's filing system
, mail a form to the Office of the Wyoming Secretary of State or have Bizee do it on your behalf. The Wyoming LLC filing fee is $100.
File by Mail
Wyoming Secretary of State
Herschler Building East, Suite 101
122 W 25th Street
Cheyenne, WY 82002-0020
You only need to file your Wyoming Articles of Organization once, but every year after, you must file a
Wyoming annual report
. This is also something Bizee can remind you to do, or we can handle the paperwork for you.
Let Bizee Handle All the Paperwork for You for $0 + the Wyoming State Fee
Form Your LLC Now for Free
What Are the Fees and Requirements to Form a Business in Wyoming?
State Fee
$102*
State Filling Time
3 Weeks
Expedited Filing Time
1 Business Day
*includes online processing fees
Annual Report
Frequency
Annually
Due Date
On or before 1st day of anniversary month of organization
Filing Fee
$62*
*includes $2 electronic filing fee
Step 5: Get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service
You’ll need an
EIN
to identify your business to the IRS. You use an EIN when you file and pay taxes or when you submit payroll information and pay your employees. An EIN is also required to open a bank account for your business. You can obtain one directly from the IRS, or Bizee can get one for you as part of the Wyoming LLC formation process.
Step 6: Create an Operating Agreement
A kind of "instruction manual" that explains how you'll run your business, an
LLC Operating Agreement
details how decisions will be made, how the business is divided among members, and what will happen if a member chooses to leave the company. Some states require that a company have an Operating Agreement in place. It isn’t legally required in Wyoming, but it’s a good idea to have one nonetheless.
Learn More About Operating Agreements
Receive a Personalized Operating Agreement When You Select Bizee’s Standard or Premium Package
Form Your LLC Now
Other Wyoming LLC Types
Professional LLC
Some states allow certain types of businesses to form Professional Limited Liability Companies (PLLCs). This type of business will typically require members to be licensed and impose other specialized requirements as well.
The state doesn't make a distinction between a Wyoming PLLC and a standard LLC. However, if your business will be providing professional services that require licensing, you must obtain the appropriate license(s) to conduct business through your LLC.
If you’re unsure whether your business is considered a professional service, check with a local business attorney.
Learn more about
PLLC vs. LLC
and which is right for your business.
Foreign LLC
If your business is already operating in another state and expanding to Wyoming — or vice versa — you’ll need to form a Foreign LLC.
Learn more about
Wyoming Foreign LLC registration
.
Close LLC
For companies that want to avoid unnecessary and costly formalities, the Wyoming Close LLC option may be the ideal business entity. This LLC type was created specifically for small companies with a small number (35 or fewer) of shareholders or for when members are close to each other (such as family and friends).
A Wyoming Close LLC can lower the cost of professional and administrative fees usually paid to attorneys and accountants.
Learn more about Close LLCs
Helpful Resources from the State of Wyoming
Secretary of State
Department of Workforce Services
Department of Revenue
More Information in This Guide
You’ll find plenty more insight and guidance on the other pages of this guide, including:
1
How to Name Your Wyoming LLC
How to search the Wyoming business registry of the Secretary of State and find the right name. Includes information on naming rules, trade names, reserving an LLC name, and more.
2
Wyoming Registered Agents
How to appoint, change, and search for Registered Agents. Also includes the rules they’re required to follow.
3
Wyoming LLC Fees and Requirements
How to understand the various fees you’ll need to pay and the requirements you’ll need to meet for both state and federal rules. Includes details of Employer Identification Numbers (EINs), state and federal business licenses, annual reports, and more.
4
Wyoming Business Tax
How to understand the various taxes you'll need to pay to the state and federal governments. Includes details of state taxes such as sales and income taxes, and federal taxes such as income and self-employment taxes.
incorporate now
Launch your business with bizee
No Contracts. No Surprises. Only $0 + State Fee to Launch Your Business.
Start Now